By Andile Mngxitama Since the Springboks’ Rugby World Cup (RWC) victory, the leadership of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has been posing as agents of transformation by making several critical statements. This is synthetic outrage meant to placate the woke section of the black population while deflecting attention from the sleaze that the EFF leaders are in, including the looting of VBS. This kind of fake outrage is in the long run harmful to the black agenda and must be called out. How can a party that has given political power to the racist Democratic Alliance (DA) express outrage about the lack of representation of the national rugby team? When Helen Zille praised colonialism, the EFF said that it was not reason enough for them to pull out of the coalition with the DA because it’s the better devil. When the same DA had admitted to have taken money from the corrupt Markus Jooste, there was no call by the EFF to pay back the money, as they had done with President Zuma. It gets worse. When the DA MP, Dianne Kohler Barnard, called for the return of the mass murdering apartheid president PW Botha, it was yet again not reason enough for the EFF to show genuine outrage against racism and move away from the DA. And of course it had no problem with making common cause with the likes of Freedom Front Plus (FF+) against Zuma. We won’t ask the reds of London about that. The EFF has long ceased to be the spokesperson of the black race. Their leaders dine with Johan Rupert at night, then go to Twitter in the day to blast the SA Rugby team. It’s part of how they project themselves as crusaders of change, when in fact they are not. Their outrage against racism are the antics of con men. To be sure, the Springboks do not reflect the South African demographics. Twenty five years into democracy, the team looks like Europe just like the DA does. One can’t be in bed with the DA, but castigate the Springboks. This is posturing by con men. It won’t help to ask the brothers in red what they think of Louis Vuitton because that’s the brand they worship. We won’t even ask about their gluttony annually during the horse race of thoroughbreds – the Durban July Handicap. Ntsiki Mazwai‘s criticism of the Springboks is honest and consistent. It’s the type of criticism that has the potential to bring more black people to critical consciousness towards the black agenda. We need to bring integrity back to black political practice. Charlatans and pseudo revolutionaries must be relentlessly exposed. Where is the agitation for Land Expropriation Without Compensation (LEWC) in parliament? The Springbok captain, Siya Kolisi, never claimed to be a revolutionary for transformation. Where was the outcry in parliament when Springbok lock Eben Etzebeth was selected to represent South Africa at the RWC despite allegations of racism and assault against him? Amilcar Cabral warned about claiming no easy victories. Andile Mngxitama is the President of the black consciousness (BC) organization, Black First Land First. No related posts.