By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Earlier today the Equality Court sitting in the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court postponed the spurious case of AfriForum against Black First Land First (BLF) to 18 and 20 September 2019. The case was postponed due to AfriForum’s unethical conduct of disregarding the court rules with regard to the live broadcasting of the court proceedings in this matter. The racist group wanted to turn the court into a media spectacle. BLF’s objection to the intended media spectacle was upheld by the court. The court ruled that the media lodge its application competently by Monday 26 August 2019, to televise the court’s proceedings and that BLF be properly served with the papers. It strongly cautioned that it won’t give the press permission to proceed broadcasting without BLF being given proper notice of the application. BLF notes that the media didn’t find it appropriate to notify it of AfriForum’s intentions, which it was well aware of. To this end, the racist AfriForum had invited the media under the pretext that there shall be a live broadcast in terms of which its leader, Ernst Alex Roets, (who is the complainant and also a so called expert witness) would be given the platform. BLF regards these shenanigans by AfriForum as a gross abuse of the court processes. Roets is not an expert. He is a racist. BLF will notify the court about the provocation against it that was orchestrated by an hostile white woman journalist of Newzroom Afrika. This relates to, what appeared to be, a rehearsed attempt to ambush the BLF President, Andile Mngxitama, to either accept or sign a piece of propaganda about the discredited “boere genocide” (Kill the Boer). It’s clear that the journalist knew of this dirty scheme by Roets. The BLF President correctly rejected the piece of evil propaganda and dropped it on the floor. The role of the media in this provocation cannot be left unattended to. BLF will be back in court on the 18th of next month to defend our right to self defence. AfriForum has no right to exist The racist AfriForum has brought BLF to the Equality Court for “hate speech”. This same bunch of land thieves have also gone to court to defend the right of whites to hoist the apartheid flag. The advocate who argued in defence of the apartheid flag is an Oppenheimer who is the same person who wants BLF to forgo its right to self defence. AfriForum opposes Affirmative Action; Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment; Land Expropriation Without Compensation; and even denies that apartheid was a crime against humanity. The land thieves are scared of BLF. They want to silence us. We won’t be silenced. The land is ours! Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 21 August 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.