By Andile Mngxitama I see the capitalist nigg…r brigade is back blaming blacks for the lack of business acumen etc. Little knowledge is dangerous. There is nothing called a successful black entrepreneur or business under colonialism and white rule. They only allow a few to be successful, enough not to threaten white power and interets. If you want to understand this, you better go and read NOT YET UHURU by
Jaramogi Ajuma Oginga Odinga, the father of Raila Odinga who is now leads the Official Opposition, the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM), in a Kenya. Jaramogi Oginga had started a successful business venture in colonial Kenya. His objective was to fight colonialism through business success. As soon as he had built a network of businesses, the colonial administration simply shut them down. He was consequently forced to take up the AK47 and fight for political independence. Another good example is the BLACK WALL STREET. Please google it. Black people became so successful that they didn’t need the charity of the US government. They were bombed together with their businesses. White power doesn’t play games. Lets come home. Long before the arrival of the Pakistani and the Somali people, who took over our spaza shops, the township economy was assaulted by the neocolonialists of Thabo Mbeki. They came to our townships and claimed tax for decades from businesses thereby collapsing small family shops, some of which had been trading over many generations. White monopoly capital (WMC) then unleashed malls in the townships to finish off the spaza shops. The Somalis and Pakistanis on their arrival here found the townships totally incapable of holding onto businesses – because of state policy, not because we are stupid. Black business success under oppression is a myth! We have to think of business as part of the fight for liberation. We must reclaim the country and the townships. We must insist on the slogan, “our township our economy”. But we have to understand doing business as part of a front for liberation, because we are black before we are anything. There is no avoiding the revolutionary battle. There are no short cuts. Business is war. #LandOrDeath! Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First, a revolutionary black consciousness movement. No related posts.