By BO Staff Writer This past weekend the story broke in the media that the Member of Parliament (MP) of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), Tebogo Mokwele, had benefited from the CR17 campaign. She has since confirmed that she received R80000 in this respect. She also resigned from the party and parliament yesterday. She claimed the money was in relation to ‘personal situations’. She was, at the relevant time, the party’s whip in the National Assembly and sat on Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on Labour; and the Joint Standing Committee on Financial Management. Nkagisang Mokgosi, EFF central command team member and the party’s MP received R80000 from the campaign. She also claimed the money was in relation to ‘personal situations’. Following revelations in the media that Tebogo Mokwele had benefited from the campaign, she disclosed that she had also benefited. She subsequently resigned from both positions on 19 August 2019. She gave the same reason as that of Mokwele as the basis of her decision to resign. What is striking about this is that at the relevant time both Tebogo Mokwele and Nkagisang Mokgosi occupied high ranking positions in the party. A lot of obvious questions arise in this context, which the leadership of the Reds of Mazzoti must answer. Andile Mngxitama, the President of the radical black consciousness movement Black First Land First (BLF), posed these pertinent questions on social media: “i. how did the incident in each case happen? Did each of the Mazzotti Party MPs just walk to Cyril Ramaphosa and say, “I have these personal situations”, and he said “don’t worry I will do something about it”. And then boom, R80k!
ii. how often did the leadership of the Reds of Mazzoti meet with Ramaphosa?
iii. who else amongst them took some money of white monopoly capital (WMC)?
iv. why were these matters kept a secret by them until the files came out?
v. does their dealing with Cyril behind closed doors explain why there is no call for Ramaphosa to go?” These are questions that the Party of Adriano Mazzotti must answer. No related posts.