By BO Staff Writer Yesterday, the ANC issued a statement dismissing the leaked e-mails, pertaining to President Ramaphosa’s criminal underhandedness, saying they are meant to serve as a distraction from the tasks of ‘socio-economic issues’. Black First Land First President Andile Mngxitama has responded with utter disgust to the African National Congress (ANC) statement on the #RamaphosaLeaks. He took to social media this morning condemning the ANC for acting against the interests of the people. This is what he said: “The ANC says its ok for London and Stellenbosch to spend a billion rand to buy its conference. Its says the ANC is for sale. They say Ramaphosa broke no law by conspiring with the enemies of our people to buy the Presidency of the country. The rot is too deep! Yes if you have a billion you can buy the ANC. ITS LEGAL. Where are the RET forces?”. When asked how he concluded that there is a progressive RET group in the ANC that warrants BLF’s energy and preoccupation, Mngxitama responded, “you haven’t been paying attention. How do you think the ANC got the pro RET NASREC resolutions?” The ruling party has given Ramaphosa unconditional support despite overwhelming evidence of his wrongdoings, including the fact that he: lied to parliament and the nation; is corrupt; conspired with WMC to buy the presidency of the ANC in the NASREC conference; is a captured President by Stellenbosch and London; has already given the country to his handlers; is protected by the WMC media; and worked in alliance with Pravin Gordhan to buy the ANC conference with money from Stellenbosch and London. Pule Mabe, the ANC’s spokesperson stated that the party was not aware of any criminality regarding Ramaphosa’s CR17 campaign to become the ANC at the 2017 Nasrec Conference. The e-mails evidently constitute part of the report of the Public Protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane, into allegations of money laundering and corruption on the part of Ramaphosa via the CR17 campaign that secured his presidency of the country. Mkhwebane found that President had misled parliament deliberately, was in violation of the executive ethics code, contravened the constitution. She further found strong evidence of money laundering. No related posts.