By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website: The criminal charges opened by Black First Land First (BLF) against the wealthiest family in South Africa (SA), the Oppenheimers, has been referred to the Hawks, almost a year after it was laid. Up until yesterday, BLF was never given an update of progress in the matter. It was not even given the most basic information, namely the case number. Without condoning the bad service delivery in this case, we are now pleased to have received the case number (OR TAMBO CAS 313/10/2018) and the name of the investigation officer, yesterday. The case is about the criminal conduct of the Oppenheimers in that they had obtained their own private international airport terminal, called Fireblade Aviation, inside the O.R. Tambo international airport, which in turn is a national key point. Moreover the so called Fireblade Aviation conducts business aviation. This unlawful conduct emanates from the fact that the Oppenheimers went to Luthuli House to get preferential treatment. It was the African National Congress (ANC), not the government, which gave the Oppenheimers prior permission to use the terminal after both Jonathan and Nicky Oppenheimer had gone to meet them. BLF is concerned that the revelations that the Oppenheimers funded the CR17 campaign, explains the reluctance of the police to make progress in this matter. We are also concerned that the Hawks would be under duress not to investigate the matter. BLF wants to see this matter to it’s finality. In the event that the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) chooses not to prosecute the Oppenheimer family, BLF will pursue the route of private prosecution. BLF will continue to focus on the crimes of the powerful and to seek justice in this respect. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 30 August 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.