By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) believes that the rate at which people with solid evidence on how President Ramaphosa was sponsored to buy the African National Congress (ANC) Nasrec Conference are dying, is very suspicious. First it was Barry Eugene Farber, the founder of Edelstein Farber Grobler (EFG), who died in his sleep last week. It is significant that Faber was a lawyer who was linked to the CR17 campaign of Ramapahosa. BLF doesn’t buy that narrative being pushed in this regard. EFG was the main conduit for money laundering to fund the heist that happened in Nasrec in December 2017 at the ANC elective conference. Faber had all the evidence of the grand corruption that ensured that white monopoly capital (WMC) has bought itself a President. Today, Gavin Watson the kingpin of Bosasa also died? It must be remembered that the EFG of the late Faber is the law firm into whose Absa bank account, Bosasa deposited the R500 000 donation for Ramaphosa’s 2017 ANC presidential campaign. The Public Protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane, has already found that there was foul play with the CR17 campaign running up to R400 milion. The #RamaphosaLeaks have revealed more that suggests that up to a billion rand has been collected and used to buy the ANC conference. The great revelations started with Bosasa. That’s why Watson had to go. It’s becoming increasingly impossible not to join the dots. Someone is taking the lives of potential witnesses in this great crime committed against the people of South Africa (SA). The assassination of witnesses and whistleblowers is an established modus operandi of organized crime. After all, dead men tell no tales. BLF calls on all those who have knowledge of the CR17 campaign funds to save their lives and make make sworn affidavits confessing what they know about the relevant crimes. We urge you to also seek the protection of the police before it’s too late. BLF doesn’t believe that Watson died from an accident in the same way we don’t believe that Faber died from natural causes. There is a need for an independent investigation into these sudden deaths of people close to the uncovered corruption around the CR17 campaign. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 26 August 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.