By BO Staff Writer Sweden is amongst the top 10 countries in terms of wealth accumulation. Yet its politicians are ordinary people. What’s wrong with that? “Politicians who spend public money on taxi rides instead of using the public train end on news headlines as even the speaker of the parliament has a card to use on public transport”. The Thomas Sankara Oath of the radical black consciousness movement, Black First Land First (BLF), says: All Politicians and Public Servants must “use the services that the public sector provides to the people. What is good for me is good for the people!” Whats wrong with that? The following article titled “Swedish politicians have no official cars, offices, titles, use public trains” by Joseph Omotayo was previously published on the legit.ng website and is reissued by Black Opinion: “As interesting as it may sounds, Sweden does not offer luxury or privileges to its politicians as they live like other ordinary citizens of the country.
Swedish ministers and Members of Parliament (MPs) do not have official cars or private drivers, they travel and transport around like everyone else in crowded public buses and trains, Mail and Guardian reports. Also, the Swedish ministers do not have any parliamentary immunity and are tried in court like anybody facing trail would be. Another interesting thing to note about the politicians is that they do not have private secretaries in their offices and their office are reportedly as small as 8m2. “I’m the one who pays the politicians, and I see no reason to give them a life of luxury,” Joakim Holm, a Swedish citizen said. Politicians who spend public money on taxi rides instead of using the public train end on news headlines as even the speaker of the parliament has a card to use on public transport. Only the prime minister, however, has the luxury of using a car from the security forces on a permanent arrangement. The politicians also do not earn big as their salaries are just about two times more than that of an elementary school teacher. It is even way lower at the municipal level as Swedish councilors do not earn a salary or have an office, they work from home. Sweden is a country without excellences as it treats its public office holders as ordinary citizens without privileges. Meanwhile, Legit.ng earlier reported that the N13.5 million monthly salary being paid to each of the 109 senators in the country was defended by Senator Ahmed Lawan, who said the major component of the amount is for oversight assignment allowances. Lawan, who is contesting for Senate presidency of the ninth National Assembly, said there would be no reduction of the amount if he becomes the next Senate president. According to the lawmaker representing Yobe North, there is nothing like jumbo pay for senators since each of them goes home with about N1 million monthly and allowances for oversight functions.” No related posts.