By BO Staff Writer Since the damning findings of the Public Protector, against Cyril Ramaphosa, regarding his conduct of gross corruption and subversion of good governance were released, the Sunday Independent subsequently on 11 August 2019 broke the news that it had campaign records in its possession which suggest who donated to Ramapahosa’s election campaign, and who benefitted. Following that more evidence emerged in the media this past weekend, which revealed that more people benefitted from the CR17 campaign. Also in the previous week Ramaphosa obtained a Court Order to conceal evidence of his corruption. However the Court Order, which conceals evidence of corruption, proved to be empty as the relevant documents were subsequently leaked. Over a week ago the radical black consciousness movement, Black First Land First (BLF), published profiles of the main donors of the CR17 campaign. Today Black Opinion presents below the main beneficiaries of the said campaign: 1. Enoch Godongwana, was paid R400 000 by the campaign. He is the head of the ANC’s sub-committee on economic transformation. He tampered with the ANC Nasrec conference resolutions. To this end he removed from the resolutions their radical content that the conference had given them.Furthermore Enoch Godongwana had worked consistently with WMC to ensure that Cyril Ramaphosa, the candidate of WMC, becomes President of South Africa. 2. Marion Sparg, Ramaphosa’s adviser and campaign communications strategist, was paid R2.4m, 3. Khumbudzo Ntshavheni, Small Business Development Minister, was paid R5 million via Phore Farms Pty Ltd. She was previously a managing director of the said company. She is also a former member of the ANC provincial executive committee (PEC). She was the campaign manager in Limpopo with Thembi Siweya. 4. Deputy Minister in the Presidency Thembi Siweya, was paid R2.3 million. Until very recently Siweya, was an ANC Youth League NEC member. She was a campaign manager in Limpopo with Khumbudzo Ntshavheni 5. Vukile Pokwana, the former journalist was paid R818 000 6. Mxolisi Dukwana, the former Free State economic development MEC, was paid R600 000 7. Grant Pascoe, former DA politician was paid R900 000, 8. Confederation of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu), one of Ramapahosa’s leading campaigners, was paid R800 000 9. Western Cape ANC was paid R1m 10. Mpumalanga Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) was paid R70000 11. Congress of South African Students (COSAS) was paid R20 000. Moreover Avela Mjajubana, the Sasco president, allegedly received about R800 000 for himself. Sasco was reportedly used as the CR17 youth wing. It was a part of coordinating the support of the youth in the country. It is further reported that Mjajubana was paid a substantial amount for organising a conference in the Free State. 12. “Maverick State” and “Times Media” were each paid R300 000 and R5 200 on 11 March and 7 June, 2017 respectively. 13. Nomangisi Cleaning Services, a company that is run by Lungile Ngubane (the fiancée of Vukani Mdabe) was paid R13 million. Vukani Mdabe is the CR17 campaign coordinator in KwaZulu-Natal. He has admitted to the City Press to using Ngubane’s company to distribute the funds in KZN for CR17 campaign work.
14. ANC MP Bernice Swarts was paid R16 million both in her personal capacity and via her company, Tomberry Trading Enterprises. Swarts had been deployed to Mpumalanga to win support for Ramaphosa among branches and delegates of the ANC. 15. Zizi Kodwa, the deputy minister of state security was paid R40 000. Kodwa has denied getting money from the CR17 campaign. At the relevant time Kodwa was heading the presidency at Luthuli House and worked with Senzo Mchunu (the then ANC head of organising) and Dakota Legoete, his colleague 16. Fikile Mbalula, the Transport Minister, was paid R40 000. Mbalula has declined to respond to the allegations. The City Press has however reported that according to “insiders” the funds served to “supplement Mbalula’s salary as he was working at ANC headquarters and had been fired as police minister”.
17. Jama Mchunu was paid R40 000. 18. Tebogo Mokwele, EFF Member of Parliament (MP) received R80 000 from the CR17 campaign. Following revelations in the media that she had benefited from the CR17 campaign, she resigned from the positions she held on 19 August 2019. She stated that her decision to resign was based on the fact that she did not disclose to her party the nature of her relationship with Ramaphosa which involved money being exchanged. 19. Nkagisang Mokgosi, central command team member of the EFF and the party’s MP (both high ranking positions, received R80000 from the campaign. She claimed the money was in relation to ‘personal situations’. Following revelations in the media that Tebogo Mokwele had benefited from the campaign, she had disclosed that she had also benefited. She subsequently resigned from both positions on 19 August 2019. She gave the same reason as that of Mokwele as the basis of her decision to resign. 19. Oliver Meth received an undisclosed amount. Oliver Meth, a journalist, has received an undisclosed amount. He said on Twitter over the weekend that he worked for the CR17 campaign as a media consultant at the relevant time and that he could not reveal anything about his work as he had signed a non disclosure agreement with the campaign. 20. Payments for hotel accommodation are also instructive. At least R8.4m was paid for the hotel accommodation of ANC delegates to buy their votes. The following payments were made: i. Southern Sun hotel was paid R7.5m; and
ii. Protea Hotel was paid R94000 No related posts.