By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) is not surprised that it took less than five minutes for Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on Justice and Correctional Services to resolve to start a process to remove the Public Protector. After revelations that President Ramapahosa gave money to members of the opposition, it makes sense that no party deemed it to be its ethical duty to protect the Public Protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane. Parliament’s Rules Committee is urgently formulating the relevant rules to allow for the removal of the Public Protector. This is an unethical and brazen defence of President Ramapahosa, who has been found wanting by the Public Protector. The call for rules to be established to remove Chapter 9 Institutions is a direct attack on the Public Protector. The Public Protector has found that the President has broken his oath of office by lying to parliament. She has also found against the President for what amounts to a brazen case of state capture and money laundering involving huge amounts of money linked to the CR17 campaign. Evidently, the subsequent #RamaphosaLeaks has indicated that the amount of R1billion was raised to buy the ANC Nasrec Conference. It now seems like Ramaphosa is using parliament to fight back. BLF is not suprised that not one party represented in parliament objected to this unethically process. This consensus and strategic non attendance of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) at the meeting of the Committee, is calculated to facilitate the interests of WMC. BLF reiterates that there is only one party in parliament. It’s the party of WMC clad in
different colours Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 27 August 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.