By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Profile of the main donors Maria Ramos Ramos evidentially has bought the position Public Investment Corporation board member which was announced by the Minister of Finance, Tito Mboweni last month. BLF has instituted action in two matters involving the criminal actions of Maria Ramos. To this end, in March 2016 BLF laid criminal charges, at the Hillbrow Police Station under case number 39/4/2016, as well as lodged a complaint with the Office of the Public Protector (OPP) and requested President Jacob Zuma to institute a Judicial Commission of Inquiry (JCOI) – in respect of corruption (which includes state capture) by various white monopoly capital (WMC) interests. These interests include
Johann Rupert; Maria Ramos; Colin Coleman; Stephen Koseff; Mark Lamberti; Ian Kirk; Bobby Godsel; Johan van Zyl; and Johan Burger. It is noteworthy that amongst those implicated for state capture are Maria Ramos, Mark Lamberti, Colin Coleman, and Bobby Godsel who also donated to the CR17 campaign. They are thus part of those who bought the President. Attention was brought to, amongst others, the subversion of the Constitution and the Arms of State; and manipulation of the currency in December 2015 so as to force Zuma to fire Des Van Rooyen and hire Gordhan as Minister of Finance which in turn cost the country R500 billion in two days. Maria Ramos admitted and apologized for ABSA’s role in the manipulation of the currency. In another matter, on 29 July 2017, BLF laid criminal charges under case number 916/07/2017 against 18 banks including ABSA for collusion, corruption, fraud, money laundering, and theft, in that they had engaged in criminal activities relating to price fixing and market division. The fact that Maria Ramos has admitted to ABSA’s role in the manipulation of the currency, supports the charges against her and 8 others relating to state capture by WMC, as well as the charges against the 18 banks in respect of their conduct relating to price fixing and market division. This is massive corruption that has been swept under the table by the white owned media. Seriti Resources The website of the mining company, Seriti Resources, indicates that it “supplies coal to Eskom’s Lethabo, Tutuka and Kriel power stations”. Collectively they supply about 23% of the country’s electricity needs. In 2017 Seriti Resources bought Eskom mines from Anglo American. The shareholders of Seriti Resources included Thebe Investments.d This is evidence that Seriti Resources bought state contracts via their donation to the CR17campaign. John Anthony Copelyn The fact that Copelyn, CR17 donor of R2m, owns interests in e-Media Holdings which constitutes e.TV and eNCA, explains why these media outlets were silent on the #RamaphosaLeaks. This suggests that the media and the President is captured by WMC. Nicky Oppenheimer’s family The Oppenheimers induced the ANC to influence government’s decision to approve the illegal acquisition of a private international airport inside a National key point. On 30 October 2018, BLF laid charges at the Cape Town Central SAPS against the Oppenheimers (Nicky and his son Jonathan) of fraud, bribery and corruption. These charges relate to the illegal acquisition by the Oppenheimers of an international private airport (called Fireblade Aviation) inside the OR Tambo International Airport. This illegal acquisition of an airport terminal inside a national key point further amounts to state capture. BLF will be making submissions to the Zondo Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in this regard. BLF has further called on government to shut down Fireblade Aviation. The Oppenheimers had met with the ANC about the former’s request for approval to establish and operate the said international terminal. This was confirmed by Fireblade Aviation. The then ANC general manager Ignatius Jacobs has confirmed in writing in 2015 that Fireblade Aviation had “met the necessary requirements” and would therefore be granted permission for the terminal’. The deal was approved by the Department of Home Affairs, two months later, as a mere formality. Instead of following the requisite government regulated process, the Oppenheimers approached the ANC to secure a dodgy deal. The ANC was accordingly induced to influence government’s decision on the matter. It appears that the Oppenheimer’s family donation of R10m is in furtherance of looting the state. Pembani In 2015 Phembani, which was established by Phuthuma Nhleko the former chief executive of MTN , merged with Shanduka, Ramaphosa’s empowerment investment group. This was done to ostensibly to resolve the conflict of interest situation Ramapahosa as the then Deputy President was facing. D It is no coincidence therefore that Umcebo Mining, a subsidiary of Phembani, supplies Eskom with coal via its Colliery in Wonderfontein. Aspen Pharmacare Aspen received state contracts worth R2bn in 2015. Aspen has confirmed making the donation of R150000 to the CR17 campaign. This money had evidently influenced government, upon Ramapahosa becoming President, to award Apen the ARV tender It is also noteworthy that Pravin Gordhan, the Public Enterprises Minister and right hand man of the President, has shares in Aspen. Gordhan hasa history of corruption. Gordhan benefits directly from many of the businesses implicated in the theft of the R26 billion from SARB (which is under the Ministry of Finance). This explains why Gordhan will not and did not investigate companies that he has shares in and is benefitting from. He has shares in Remgro, which is owned by Johann Rupert who is implicated in state capture in relation to the hiring him as Minister of Finance, as well as for the theft of R26 billion from SARB Gordhan is a beneficiary of the WMC BHP Billion which has consumed 11% of the national energy. He also has shares in Anglo American. Companies like Anglo American and Remgro do business with SOEs such as Eskom from which Gordhan benefits. Gordhan has shares in many of the banks that BLF has charged and benefits directly from the proceeds of their criminal activities. Hence SARB under Gordhan did not proceed against these banks by way of criminal prosecutions. Under Gordhan’s watch, a “Rogue Unit” was set up which engaged in serious violations of people’s rights, especially against pro Radical Economic Transformation (RET) entities in service of WMC. There is overwhelming evidence suggesting unethical and criminal conduct on the part of Gordhan which, amongst other things, links him to white capitalists who insisted that he be appointed the Minister of Finance. BLF will shortly be making submissions to the Zondo Commission of Inquiry on state capture on the criminal conduct of Gordhan and Nhlanhla Nene suggested in the leaked Internal Audit Report resulting inter alia in the disappearance of over R4.3 billion which amounts to serving state capture. Conclusion The ANC leadership defended Ramaphosa after the leaked campaign emails indicated strong evidence of criminality including corruption and money laundering on his part. The ruling party dismissed the evidence as a plot to distract the country from the task of addressing “socio-economic issues and dealing with the challenges of our economy”. Late last week Ramaphosa applied to the Gauteng High Court to seal certain bank statements contained in the Bosasa report of the Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane. It’s appalling that Ramaphosa wants to prevent the courts and the public from looking into his bank accounts through which his presidential campaign funds were manifestly and indeed illegally processed.. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC)
12 August 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.