By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website: Black First Land First (BLF) calls on Judge Zondo to evaluate the agenda of witnesses allowed to appear before the DescriptionJudicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture (Zondo Commission). This commission has become a platform to slander people perceived to be enemies of white monopoly capital (WMC). The latest victim of this slander is the Secretary General of the African National Congress (ANC), Ace Magashule. It’s shocking that a discredited functionary of WMC like the former Free State economic development Member of the Executive Council (MEC), Mxolisi Dukwana, has been given an open ended platform to lie and slander Magashule. Dukwana is a paid agent of the political enemies of Magashule. This factor alone disqualifies him from being a credible witness. Dukwana is clearly carrying out the agenda of those who pay him. He is facing multiple accusations of corruption which, amongst other things, led to him being removed as MEC in the Free State by Magashule. The man has a vendetta against Magashule and is using the Zondo Commission to tarnish the name his foe. Recently the #RamaphosaLeaks have shown that Dukwana was a paid agent of the anti Radical Economic Transformation (RET) slate that was sponsored by WMC. Dukwana was allegedly on a monthly R75 000 retainer. He remains a paid agent doing the work of his master. BLF calls on the Zondo Commission to stop giving questionable characters with evil agendas an unfettered platform. The Zondo Commission has consistently failed to protect people whose names have been soiled by lies and slander. It has consequently lost a lot of credibility. Dukwana is paid to slander Magashule. Judge Zondo must do the right thing. He must evaluate Dukwana’s agenda and protect Magashule from the lies and slander of this man. BLF is duty bound to play an oversight role regarding the conduct of the Zondo Commission, a role we take very seriously. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 31 August 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.