By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Tomorrow, 21 August 2019 Black First Land First (BLF) will be at the Equality Court, which will sit in the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court, to defend itself against yet another attack on our movement by land thieves. The trial will be heard under case number 29/2018 EQ JHB. The racist AfriForum has taken our ourganisation to the Equality Court on false charges of hate speech. The right wing group hopes to silence our organization through the abuse of the judiciary. All the white supremacist organizations, representing land thieves, are scared of BLF. These organizations will do everything to stop BLF from existing. This is because these organizations of land thieves know that BLF can’t be bought with money nor can it be brought down by intimidation. These racist organizations such as Freedom Front Plus; Solidarity; AfriForum; and their related subsidiaries would not rest until their evil project of shutting down BLF succeeds. We have bad news for them. BLF is going nowhere and shall be registered for the 2021 Local Government Elections. There are a dozen outstanding matters, including new ones, that these groups have brought against BLF which amount to an abuse of the judiciary, in furtherance of their anti black agendas. The trial tommorow is about a complaint of hate speech that AfriForum brought against BLF. This is in relation to the one is to five (1:5) comment by BLF President, Andile Mngxitama, which was in response to Johann Rupert threatening violence on black people through his “private army” in the taxi industry. We responded by saying that black people have a right to self defence. AfriForum is taking us to court for saying that we have a right to defend ourselves. We shall never be bullied into allowing ourselves to be murdered like chickens. We shall meet the land thieves in court tomorrow morning. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 20 August 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.