By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website: Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on Justice and Correctional Services decided yesterday to start a process to get rid of the Public Protector, Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane. The Democratic Alliance (DA) has instigated this process in defence of President Cyril Ramaphosa, who in turn is considered by this white party to be the best defender of white monopoly capital (WMC). It was a known fact that the committee had scheduled a meeting to discuss the expulsion of the Public Protector. Where was the EFF? Media reports indicate that the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) did not attend this critical committee meeting. This was despite the fact that sufficient notice of the details of the scheduled meeting, including its agenda, were of public knowledge well in advance of the said meeting. Before the revelations emerged that the EFF had taken money from President Ramaphosa, it presented itself as a defender of Public Protector. However when an important opportunity arose to defend the Public Protector this party, with more than 40 members of parliament (MPs), was nowhere to be found. As a result it took less than five minutes for the anti Public Protector parliamentary committee to decide to remove Advocate Mkhwebane from her office. It is not the first time that the EFF had disappeared from parliament at crucial moment. Last year when the Oppenheimers were in parliament, the Reds of London took cover. It was the Black First Land First (BLF) that embraced the moment and dealt with this wealthy family which bought itself a private international airport terminal, inside the O.R. Tambo International Airport. Subsequent to the decision of the committee, the African National Congress (ANC) expressed its support for the removal of the Public Protector. That’s more honest. It’s now clear that the three main political parties in parliament have agreed to coverup the corruption of President Ramaphosa through shutting up the Public Protector. These developments clarify why there was a conspiracy to keep the BLF out of parliament. As things stand, there is no party in parliament that represents the interests of black people Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 28 August 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.