By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: South Africa is a capitalist racist patriarchal colonial enclave. This means that black women are the most oppressed as they suffer the burden of tripple oppression (race, class and patriachy) at the same time. Black women have always been in the forefront of the struggle for the liberation of our people. However, because of patriarchy their contributions are never acknowledged. We must not do to the Public Protector what we allowed society to do to Mama Winnie Madikizela Mandela. It is in recognition of the leading role that the current Public Protector plays in protecting the vulnerable against the powerful that Black First Land First (BLF) dedicates this day primarily to Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane. The Public Protector is under attack because of her courage to stand on the side of the truth, even against the most powerful representatives of the capitalist racist patriarchal colonial enclave we call South Africa. It is this dedication and bravery that makes the Public Protector the most deserving of our acknowledgment as the embodiment of the historic struggle where South African women said No to the apartheid bully, Hendrik Verwoerd. We call on our people today to reflect on the reasons why the Public Protector is persecuted. We must reflect on how even the judiciary is being used to fight the true protector of our people. We also urge the public to contribute towards paying the costs imposed unjustly by the courts against the Public Protector. The public must protect the Public Protector. She is our only hope in the face of the capitalist racist patriarchal colonial bullies of Stellenbosch and London. Halala Advocate Mkhwebane halala!
Malibongwe! Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 9 August 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.