By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) condemns the afrophobic attacks that took place yesterday in the Johannesburg CBD. It has since come to our attention that the police raid executed was led and instigated by so called brand owners. The police must stop being ice boys of brand owners. These attacks are against small traders who are trying to make an honest living out of selling goods in the markets. Small traders are not responsible for bringing so called counterfeit goods into South Africa (SA). It is the South African authorities that have allowed these goods to come into the country. Expectedly, in the climate of unemployment, people are doing everything to earn a living. It is therefore shocking and evil that our government chose to become iceboys of these so called brand owners, including Nike, and Puma. BLF calls on the government to stop these raids, protect small traders, and refuse to be the running dogs of multinational companies. BLF is also aware that politicians are using the desperate situation of our people to instigate anti black afrophobia. On the one hand there are irresponsible calls by the likes of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader, Julius Malema, to open the borders with no responsibilities and protection of rights of our people inside and outside SA. On the other hand we have the afrophobic attacks instigated by Herman Mashaba, the DA leader elected into that position by the same EFF. Added to this mix is the African National Congress (ANC) government, which is unleashing the brutality of the police upon the inner city under the pretext of fighting so called illegal immigrants and in defence of the interests of multinationals. BLF calls for a responsible Pan Afrikanist response to the border question which would include, amongst others, economic integration; protection of the rights of all people including immigrants; documentation of all without asking questions; and economic investment in the African Region by SA to ensure economic stability. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 2 August 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.