By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) asks the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) to tell the nation the whole truth about its relationship with Ramaphosa. The two women Members of Parliament (MPs), Tebogo Mokwele and Nkagisang Mokgosi, were sacrificed on the alter of hypocrisy and patriachy. First EFF said that the MP Mokwele has confessed the whole truth after she was exposed by the #RamaphosaLeaks. The figure put out was R40 000. Now on her choreographed resignation letter, it’s said that she received R80 000. How much was it, in fact? Who else did she share the money with? The EFF must stop playing games. It must tell the nation why it authored the resignation letters on behalf of these MPs. It is a public relations exercise, on the part of the EFF, to deflect attention from the rotten relations they have with Ramaphosa. Who else is bought? BLF has been saying the top three political parties in parliament are actually one party. The ideology that brings them together is money. These revelations vindicates BLF. The questions that the EFF must answer include: i. Who else in its ranks was sponsored by London/Stellenbosch money?
ii. Who paid for their billboards, T-shirts, posters and helicopters during the last elections?
iii. How much did they spend in total in relation to the elections? The two women MPs were sacrificed to cover up the deep rot going on. Men don’t get punished for corruption. The corruption where the men in the EFF leadership are involved goes unpunished, including VBS; GladAfrika; tea with Johann Rupert; secret deals with Robin Renwick; and houses sponsored by the self declared criminal Adriano Mazzotti. The EFF is practicing patriarchy. The real tragedy of so much love for money is that there shall be no amendments to the constitution regarding Land Expropriation Without Compensation (LEWC). The EFF and the African National Congress (ANC) are not going to disrupt their sponsors. When opposition parties take money from the ruling party it means that there is conflict of interests and, worst still, subversion of the will of the people. BLF will write to the speaker of parliament and demand action against both the President and those who were willing to be bought. Right now, our people have no representation in parliament. Only money is represented by the top three parties. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 20 August 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.