By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) welcomes and supports the urgent court application lodged by the Mandela Foundation against the arrogant racist Ernst Roets of Afriforum. The racist Roets deliberately and purposely undermined the court’s decision made on Wednesday that displaying the apartheid flag gratuitously constitutes hate speech, unfair discrimination, and harassment based on race in terms of the provisions of the Equality Act. Within hours of the court’s decision, Roets took to Twitter and displayed the apartheid flag. Afriforum is an unapologetic defender of apartheid. Roets and Afriforum have one agenda which is to preserve apartheid. The display of the apartheid flag impairs the dignity and dismisses the collective pain of blacks resulting from colonialism, of which apartheid is a function. BLF doesn’t believe that focusing on apartheid symbols is useful when current land ownership and the economy are structured to ensure the perpetuation of apartheid. There is thus no ending apartheid without retuning the land. Roets and Afriforum derive their racism from owning our land illegally. Afriforum operates as a pacifier of apartheid egos. Each time an attempt is made to address the apartheid legacy, this organization undermines such an effort. Afriforum opposes all the measures adopted to try and deal with apartheid such as Affirmative Action; Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment; and Land Expropriation Without Compensation. It even denies that apartheid was a crime against humanity. Ernst Roets has declared himself an academic and an expert on hate speech. He is in fact an expert in protecting and advancing apartheid and racism. This racist belongs in jail, just like all the apartheid leaders who are currently enjoying state pensions Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 24 August 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.