By BO Staff Writer In a video released yesterday, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC-EP) read their manifesto titled, “While there is a will to fight, there’ ll be hope of winning”. They condemned the Colombian state’s betrayal of the peace accord concluded between the parties in November 2016; and announced that it is continuing with the armed struggle against the bourgeois state. Luciano Marín Arango, aka Iván Márquez who read the manifesto referenced the revolutionary legacies of FARC-EP’s leader Manuel Marulanda, and Simon Bolivar. He pointed out that in the period since concluding the peace accord, 500 trade unionists, militants, and human rights activists had been killed, and 150 guerrillas had been murdered. The 2016 peace accord was reached after a period of four years of negotiations. Marquez was the lead negotiator for FARC-EP in the peace accord process. Since concluding the peace accord, FARC-EP had formed a political party and received numerous seats in the Colombian congress. Life for the guerrillas in this period has been characterized by persecutions, assassinations and imprisonments at the hand of the Colombian state. “Betrayal, perfidy, judicial persecution, political insecurity, the murder of social leaders and ex-combatants, has forced us to take up arms… We announce to the world that the second Marquetalia has begun under the protection of international law that assists all the peoples of the world to rise up in arms against oppression”, Marquez elaborated. Jesús Santrich another FARC-EP guerrillas leader, was on the instructions of the US, arrested and imprisoned on a bogus charge of drug trafficking. Upon being released in June 2018 he dissapeared until yesterday from the public view. In protest of the conduct of the Colombian state, Marquez who was assigned a seat in the senate, declined to take up the post days before he was due to do so in July 2018. Colombian President Duque had strongly opposed the peace accord from its inception and during his tenure as President. No related posts.