By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) condemns the cowardly actions of the United States (US) yesterday to force Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro to step down via the imposition of sanctions on six top-ranking security officials and several other prominent officials. The new sanctions follows the defeat of the US last weekend to invade Venezuela via the Columbian border under the guise of humanitarianism. BLF applauds the efforts of those defending the sovereignty and peace of Venezuela in the face of US imperialist assault on the country. This includes those sanctioned yesterday namely the National Guard Commander Richard Lopez; the security officials stationed near the Brazilian and Colombian borders; and the 49 other Venezuelans banned from traveling to the US. The opposition leader Juan Guaidó, the self appointed “Venezuelan President” at the behest of the US, is spreading the lie that some 300,000 Venezuelans could die unless US humanitarian aid is allowed to enter the country. In furtherance of the imperialist regime change agenda to remove the democratically elected President Maduro and replace him with the hand picked Guaidó – the latter was part of the US aid convoy from Colombia, to Brazil, to Paraguay inspite of being ordered by the Venezuelan Supreme Court not to leave the borders of the country. The US wants Maduro gone to enable it to loot Venezuela’s mineral resources including its oil reserves which is the biggest and richest in the world. BLF notes that Guaido’s next destination to sell Venezuela’s regime change is Argentina. Guaido is clearly guilty of contempt of court and treason. BLF accordingly calls for the immediate arrest and prosecution of Guaido upon his return to the country on Monday. BLF further reiterates its call on the Venezuelan people to continue the fight for its sovereignty and independence. We stand in internationalist solidarity with you and President Maduro. #USHandsOffVenezuela
#ArrestGuaido Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC) 2 March 2019 Contact details Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za International Relations Secretary: Shantha Balakrishna
Cell number: +27 72 114 3670 Deputy President: Zanele Lwana
Cell: +27799867225 National Spokesperson: Lindsay Maasdorp
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Head of Media & Communications: Brian Tloubatla
Cell: +27 82 216 7664 No related posts.