By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: On 27 February 2019 Black First Land First (BLF), led by its President Andile Mngxitama, charged Johann Rupert at the Hillbrow Police Station, under the case number CAS 1025/2/2019, for inciting black on black violence. In this regard Rupert made the following racist utterances at or about 20h00 on Wednesday 4 December 2018 during an interview with Power FM (at 79 Central Street, Houghton Estate) hosted by the chairman of MSG Afrika, Given Mkhari: “Jabu (Chairperson of Eskom, Jabu Mabuza) and I have one thing in common: He’s chairman of the (South African Black) Taxi Association and one of the first (partners) in Business Partners was the taxi association. So I also have my own army. When those red guys come, they’ve gonna have to remember the taxi association.” Rupert clearly indicated that he had a long-time friend who is the chairman of the taxi association; has his own army; the taxi associations are his business partners and therefore his private militia; and anyone who affects his interests will be subjected to taxi owners violence. He thus threatened to unleash black on black violence. This strongly suggests that Rupert sponsored the taxi violence during and after the apartheid era. There’s also reason to believe that Rupert will not hesitate to set his private army on BLF. The two are enemies. Rupert has ten interdicts against BLF to prevent them from taking the land that he stole from blacks. In mid February this year AfriForum lodged a complaint at the Equality Court in Johannesburg against BLF and its President, Andile Mngxitama. The complaint relates to a speech delivered on 08 December 2018 by President Mngxitama at a rally that took place at the Ikageng Stadium, in Ikakeng, Potchefstroom. During his address BLF President responded to Ruperts incitement of violence. He said that if Rupert unleashes his private militia of taxi bosses to kill one black person then BLF would respond with 5 white lives, including their women, children and pets. He pointed out that we will defend ourselves against the violence of Rupert – it is our right. The relief sought by AfriForum includes inter alia the following orders: that the words expressed by President Mngxitama amount to hate speech; an unconditional apology; damages in the amount of R500 000.00; and referral of the Judgment and the evidence to the Director of Public Prosecutions. Yesterday, BLF filed its opposing affidavit in the Equality Court. We pointed out amongst other things as follows: AfriForum has not proven its case and the Court must deny the relief it seeks. The underlying assumptions of the orders sought demonstrate the function of racism and arrogance by AfriForum. It is aimed at humiliating BLF and its President and reproducing the violence of colonialism. When perpetrating the black genocide whites acted indiscriminately making no distinction between black women, men, children and their pets – they killed them all. The reference to white children and women, as well as their pets is rhetorical and meant to create a mirror image and serve as a deterrent to the black on black violence threatened by Rupert. BLF also made a general call to all the taxi associations. We asked them to tell Rupert, ‘We are not your militia. We are not your private army’. The formation of a political party is un-circumscribed and free. It is a constitutional right. The consolidated effect of the complaint by AfriForum is to proscribe the existence of the BLF. This case is politically motivated and malicious. It forms part of a long list of attempts by Afriforum to ban BLF. AfriForum will not succeed. BLF will be in parliament in 2019. Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC) 1 March 2019 Contact details Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Deputy President: Zanele Lwana
Cell: +27799867225 National Spokesperson: Lindsay Maasdorp
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Head of Media & Communications: Brian Tloubatla
Cell: +27 82 216 7664 No related posts.