By BO Staff Writer Sam Mshengu, a logistics operator from Mpumalanga who is now the owner of Sam Holdings, received huge public attention when he made his entrance this year during the Durban July with a convoy of 72 luxury cars.
‌
This past Sunday Mshengu was arrested by the Hawks. His arrest relates to an investigation by the Department of Home Affairs (DHA) regarding his citizenship status. There are further linked suggestions that he is from Zimbabwe and that his South African citizenship is consequently illegal. Andile Mngxitama, the President of Black First Land First (BLF) which is a revolutionary black consciousness movement, condemned the arrest of Mshengu. Responding on social media he said: “Sam Mshengu with his fleet of cars at the Durban July, is a victim of white monopoly capital (WMC). He’s a victim like all black people who have something that was not given by WMC”. Like the story of the millions of impoverished blacks, Mshengu’s upbringing is said to be very difficult. His father, who was a soldier, was killed in DRC Congo when he was just two days old. He dropped out of school at the age of 11 as his family struggled to make ends meet. He then began working in a farm in Limpopo where he picked oranges. He was later promoted to the trucking division of that business where he learnt everything about trucking and the logistics operations. Subsequently in 2014 he established his own trucking company under the name, Sam Holdings Trading. He worked hard and saved his money until he eventually bought his own truck. He then succeeded in saving R3 million which he used to purchase three more trucks and trailers. “Now I have 52 trucks running on the road with machines and plant hire. That’s how I made my money. I’ve never been involved in anything illegal. I do transport with Eskom, but I’m also venturing into mining now with my own mine. It’s all my mind and planning and the mercy of God,” Mshengu said in a Power FM interview. When criticized for flashing his wealth at the Durban July Mshengu explained that he was merely marketing his business and also himself so that people could get to know about his business through him. “The people who are keen to have Mshengu locked up for allegations of ID fraud, your silence on the white man who gatecrashed his aircraft at the OR Tambo International Airport taxiway to drop off his friend so that he won’t miss his flight is troubling. OR Tambo International is a National Key Point. Where is your outrage at this white man? Lol, remember how y’all lost your heads when Atul Gupta landed at the Waterkloof Airport? And it’s not even a National Key Point. Ai SufferAforika”, Mngxitama said. No related posts.