By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website: Black First Land First (BLF) is not suprised that a week after the former North West premier Supra Mahumapelo called for action against those who bought the 54th elective conference of the African National Congress (ANC) at Nasrec in December 2017, he is accused of an old murder. White monopoly capital (WMC), which gave Cyril Ramaphosa R1 billion, is doing everything possible to silence those who want the truth. These evil forces of WMC (Stellenbosch mafia) bought themselves a whole President now they are silencing the truth. Mahumapelo’s call for action against those who were bought and their handlers is legitimate. Why is the ANC not acting on the findings of the Public Protector that over R400 million was given unlawfully to Ramaphosa who seems to have used it to buy the ANC Nasrec conference. These findings were clearly based on unassailable evidence. Furthermore, solid reports on the Ramaphosa leaks show that up to R1 billion was used to buy Ramaphosa the Presidency of the ANC and by extension, the Presidency of the country. This shocking brazen state capture warrants action. It’s now known that part of the money from the CR17 campaign was used to sponsor the counter revolutionary mayhem in the North West. The so called Revolutionary Council was sponsored to burn and destroy the North West to remove Mahumapelo. It’s shocking that members of the same gang of looters and arsonists have subsequently been rewarded with government positions in the North West government. This indicates that the removal of Mahumapelo had nothing to do with service delivery. It was a political attack on Radical Economic Transformation (RET). The so called affidavit by a self confessed criminal which implicates Mahumapelo in an old murder case, is a cheap attempt to deflect attention from the Public Protector’s findings and the Ramaphosa leaks as well as to intimidate Mahumapelo. The issue on the table is that Ramaphosa is implicated in shocking activities of using money to influence the ANC Nasrec conference. This is not hearsay. The Public Protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane, has found so and the Ramaphosa leaks are not disputed. BLF is concerned that the people who have evidence on this saga of how the ANC Nasrec conference was bought, are either dying under mysterious circumstances like the Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and the lawyer, Barry Eugene Farber, into whose bank account Watson deposited R500 000 for Ramaphosa’s presidential campaign. We also see and denounce the silencing of those who speak up, like Supra Mahumapelo, with smear campaigns – involving propaganda, fake news and disinformation – in a manner similar to the dirty tactics of Stratcom. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 22 September 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.