By Andile Mngxitama If you want to understand the alliance of Marxism Leninism with the free-market capitalism of Milton Friedman just look at the goings-on of the metropolitan municipalities (metros) where coalitions of self declared Marxist Leninists and capitalists govern. But to see all this you are going to have to develop resistance to the charms rhetoric or you are going to be bamboozled! How does the money flow from the vaults of the metros to the coffers of Johann Rupert, the part owner of Louis Vuitton? This is a question that serious students of political economy may want to pursue at some point. When the Mazzotti boy stood up in parliament yesterday and shouted, “down with tenders, down!”, I knew he was preempting something about how he ate the very same tenders. And there you are, his former friends are now telling us about EFF’s links to Afrirent which is the company that got the R1.2 billion fleet contract of Joburg metro. Herman Mashaba was forced to give this contract in order to retain his position and pass the anti poor budget which was rhetorically presented as pro poor. Anyway, I do think that the Mazzotti boys deserve some acknowledgement for having the balls to steal in the order of millions and to run rackets of billions. If you really want to know how the money flows, you need to know something about things like On-Point, Mahuna, Sgamega, Afrirent, and GladAfrica – to mention some of the main points of money laundering and influence buying. These boys don’t play. Atul Gupta may be a little envious. The sad thing is that all these moves are made to generate money in order to calibrate relations of exploitation that impact very negatively on the poor. The VBS looting, for instance, is not just about stolen figures, it’s about lives destroyed . We see a comprador proper at work. Where are the readers of the Wretched of the Earth? Andile Mngxitama, is the President of Black First Land First (BLF) which is a revolutionary black consciousness movement. No related posts.