By BO Staff Writer Eyewitness News (EWN) has tendered an apology to the leader of the Reds of London, Julius Malema, for its senior journalist Barry Bateman using foul language yesterday. The party has however rejected the apology and called for Bateman to be suspended. EWN is reported to have removed Bateman from air upon being made aware of a video of the incident going viral on social media. It is further reported that EWN will convene its own investigation into the matter. Earlier yesterday Malema had a meeting with the Hawks so as to give a warning statement relating to charges based on allegations that he had discharged a firearm during a rally in East London. He thereafter addressed the media. Malema has also been charged with the offence of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm (assault GBH) in another matter on allegations that he and
the party’s spokesperson were involved in an altercation with a certain police officer during the funeral of the late Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. Black First Land First (BLF) President, Andile Mngxitama, responded as follows to the charges against Malema: “The so called discharging of a firearm charge, and aggravated assault of a police officer charge against Julius are nonsense. What Julius should really account for is the money of the poor he is alleged to have looted from VBS. And it’s a black people’s problem. He must account on the say so of blacks. It is the black people who are suffering from this money stolen from VBS.” Upon Bateman probing Malema further about this incident, Malema answered him. Subsequently as Malema walked away, Bateman used foul language while conversing with another journalist. To this end Bateman was caught on camera, according to EWN. The BLF President took the opportunity to remind Malema that his organization had previously warned about white journalists. “We warned about white journalists. When BLF was dealing with these so called white journalists; the Reds of London called us the Gupta militia. Remember that time when the Daily Maverick blocked us from entering the Nandos sponsored pseudo debate, despite us having paid the entry fee? Daily Maverick invited the Mazzotti Boys – these Reds of London – to attack us, and they did. For this they were hailed as defenders of Freedom of Expression. We warned the Mazzotti Boys back then that when they are finished with us they will be coming for them. We were right! BLF knows the future because we follow Black Consciousness…”, Mngxitama said. No related posts.