Photo credit: SowetanLIVE By BO Staff Writer In the matter of the National Credit Regulator (NCR) v Standard Bank the South Gauteng High Court held on 27 June this year that banks can no longer take money from your account without your permission to settle debts that fall under the National Credit Act (NCA). The Court found in favour of the NCR. The SA Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) intervened as amicus curiae (friend of the court) on the basis that important questions regarding the protection of the human rights were raised by this matter. “The judgment has provided the much-needed clarity on the position in law and marks the end to a destructive practice wherein set-off is often-times applied without any notice to, or interaction with, the consumer”, the SAHRC said. The banks have traditionally relied on the common law practice of ‘set-off’ which meant that if you were in arrears regarding your debt repayment to the bank, it could simply seize money, including the legal costs and administration fees associated to the debt, from your bank account when funds were deposited into it. The banks assumed absolute privilege above other creditors which frequently left the customer/debtor without funds to take care of basic needs such as food, electricity, education and transport; and with the violation of fundamental rights like the right to dignity, shelter, food security and education. At its inception in 2007 the NCA provided for the application of set-off rules under specific conditions. The set-off rules generally favored consumers in terms of which the bank is required to give notification to the debtor of its intention to deduct funds from her/his account. Also the debtor was required to authorize the said payment; and the funds were required to be specifically deposited for the purpose of debt repayment. However the common law set-off principle favoured of the banks in that it empowered them to deduct funds without giving notice to the debtor; without getting authorization from the debtor; and without allowing the debtor the opportunity to question it. The debt installment plus the legal and administration costs as well as all other linked costs, which are not authorized, are in this way deducted. The poor debtors, who often cannot secure legal representation, are reluctant to challenge this via the courts because of the huge costs involved in litigating against the rich banks. Hence the banks had no problem with relying on the common law practice that favored them instead of the NCA provisions that comparatively favoured debtors. The banks have evidently been undertaking devious methods. The credit agreements prepared by the banks which previously included the conditions for the application of a set off, have subsequently become silent on the subject of set off. Their silence in this respect had made it possible for them to base their reliance on the common law interpretation of set-off and thereby seize money from debtors’ bank accounts.This then effectively rendered the NCA a nullity in relation to restraining abuse of the set-off principle. It was argued by the SAHRC and NCR that Standard Bank’s interpretation of the NCA served to undermined debt review, which in turn makes provision for a debtor who is heavily-indebted to make application to court for her/his debt repayments to be rescheduled. The court was presented with evidence that the bank has clearly continued executing set-off, notwithstanding the fact that customers are under the relief of debt review. This has negatively impacted on customers in that they are unable to meet payment to other creditors as well as respond to their basic needs including that of their dependents. The Court ultimately held that “the common law right to set-off is not applicable in respect of credit agreements that are subject to the National Credit Act.” The Court ordered costs against Standard Bank. No related posts.