Vukani Community Development (Vukani) is rallying everybody to unite in solidarity behind the Public Protector, Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane, to push government to stop the witch-hunt against her and to allow her to continue serving the people as a Chapter 9 Institution. Vukani is led by Mayibuye Melisizwe Mandela, who is the organization’s chairperson and the great grandson of the late former President of South Africa (SA) Nelson Mandela. We invite all progressive peoples, organizations, churches, women’s organizations, and political parties to a public meeting with the objective of concluding, by intent and signature, a commitment to a national declaration which will include a program of action (POA) that says #HandsOffThePublicProtector. The POA will include amongst other things, a diary of events, which in turn will include public meetings and mass actions. Moreover, wherever and whenever the Public Protector is under attack, the POA will provide for the public to be there in every form to protect her. The chairperson of Vukani, also wishes to express his acknowledgment of those organizations which had shown support to the Public Protector by attending the prayer meeting such as the African National Congress Women’s League (ANCWL), African People’s Convention (APC) and African Transformation Movement (ATM) as represented by their respective leaders, namely Mama Bathabile Dlamini, Themba Godi, and Vuyolwethu Zungula. Vukani also acknowledges the consistent support that Black First Land First (BLF) led by its President, Andile Mngxitama, has shown to the Public Protector. We implore you all to be part of this monumental day when the first public meeting will be held to unite in support of the Public Protecter. Details of the venue and date of the meeting will be communicated in the next few days. You may RSVP to the email address: shanthabalakrishna@yahoo.com Issued by the Board of Vukani Community Development 1 September 2019 For media enquiries contact: Mayibuye Melisizwe Mandela
Chairperson
Cell: +27 79 771 9913 No related posts.