By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website: The Equality Court sitting at the Johannesburg Magistrate Court will tomorrow hear arguments on the complaint of Black First Land First (BLF) against the racist Kallie Kriel of Afriforum. Kriel, representing the racist organization called Afriforum, will answer to a charge of hate speech amounting to racism. He is in clear contravention of section 10 of the Equality Act in that he committed hate speech by saying that Apartheid was not a crime against humanity. This is contrary to the established international law which has been been legislated upon by South Africa (SA). Kriel has not only denied that apartheid is a crime against humanity, but he has also gone further to defend his racist, hurtful, harmful, utterances of hatred. Afriforum does not hide the fact that it’s a pro apartheid organization. Regarding it’s mission it says, “Afriforum works to ensure that the basic prerequisites for the existance of Afrikaners are met; by acting as a credible Afrikaner interest organization…”. Moreover, it identifies itself as part of the “Solidarity movement – outside the workplace on national level to handle the impact of the current political realities facing Afrikaners…”. Judge Mojapelo’s description of Afriforum is instructive. He found that, “Afriforum is essentially about Afrikaner interests”. This Afrikaner organization has defended the apartheid flag; and funded legal representation (Gerrie Nel and Barry Roux) to defend convicted Afrikaner criminals (Pieter Doorewaard and Phillip Schutte) who murdered an innocent black child, Matlhomola Mosweu in 2017. Now the same Afriforum says that Apartheid was not a crime against humanity. This is open racism. It’s the irony of ironies that the South African mainstream media, including the SABC, calls this bunch of apartheid apologists a “civil rights organization”. BLF has asked the court to take strong action against these racists. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 25 September 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.