By BO Staff Writer The following press statement was delivered today in Johannesburg by Black First Land First President, Andile Mngxitama. It was previously published on the website of the movement and is now reissued by Black Opinion: 1. KZN FLOODS Black First Land First (BLF) stands with the people of KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) especially the black families who have lost their loved ones in the floods. The floods have yet again shown the consequences of the apartheid spacial design and the failure of the African National Congress (ANC) to end apartheid in reality since 1994. Blacks die from simple heavy rains because of the underlying socio-economic conditions we have been subjected to. BLF puts the blame for the floods on the door step of the white community which created apartheid spacial design and infrastructure development deficit. Furthermore, we recognize that the unpredictable weather behavior is a direct outcome of climate change which is again, a consequence of the global destruction of the ecosystem by white people. BLF demands reparations from the beneficiaries of apartheid to restitute for the floods in South Africa. The African Union (AU) must demand ecological reparations from both the European Union (EU) and the United States of America (USA), as they are the biggest contributors to climate change. Those who destroy must pay! We call on the government to bring relief to the people; cover the costs of funerals and rebuild houses for those who lost property. Extra funding can be sourced from a special 1% taxation from all the beneficiaries of apartheid and corporations. These are not natural disasters. These are man made calamities. 2. THANK YOU FOR YOUR SUPPORT BLF wishes to thank all the people of South Africa who have contributed to ensure that our movement raises the deposit to participate in the elections. We managed to out-maneuver the enemy in the form of Afriforum which has frozen our bank account in a desperate attempt to stop us from participating in the elections. Our account remains frozen. 3. BLF IS ON THE BALLOT! Black First Land First (BLF) is on the BALLOT. BLF is going to participate in the upcoming national elections. We are number 11 on the ballot! 4. HANDS OFF BOTSWANA BLF is calling for President Ramaphosa’s extended family to stop destabilizing Botswana for its diamonds. They want to steal the diamonds of Botswana like they have robbed South Africa of R1.4 trillion with Independent Power Producers (IPPs). The Ramaphosa, Radebe and Motsepe brother-in-law business must stop behaving like the new Cecil John Rhodes. Having been put in position to eat with White Monopoly Capital (WMC) as junior partners in SA, they are now trying to capture Botswana through funding regime changes there. This diamond-loving family wants to repeat the grand theft of the ANC conference we saw in NASREC, but now with the Botswana ruling party. Bridgette Radebe (sister of Motsepe, wife of Miniser of Energy and sister of the wife of President Ramaphosa) is accused of attempting a regime change in Botswana. She is accused of interfering in leadership election of the ruling Botswana Democratic Party. She wanted to remove President Mokgweetsi Masisi. The Botswana media reports that she and her mining mogul brother had funded the campaign of President Masisi’s rival for the party top job, former Foreign Affairs Minister, Pelonomi Venson-Moitoi. BLF welcomes the visa banning order the Botswana government has imposed on the regime change princess Bridgette Radebe. Botswana is not a banana republic. 5. WHAT THESE ELECTIONS ARE ABOUT It is people vs money (WMC). The Radical Economic Transformation (RET) program started by President Zuma has frightened WMC and land thieves. They are using these elections to consolidate white monopoly power. This is why they have poured so much money into the campaigns of pro-WMC parties. They have even called on pensioners like Thabo Mbeki to come back and assist. The ideal outcome for WMC is a coalition of the Democratic Alliance (DA), Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and the ANC of Ramaphosa, in order to end RET. It is for this reason that the EFF has been propped up with money and its corruption overlooked. Malema is spending close to R200 million on the elections. Where does he get that kind of money from? One of his big billboards costs R100 000 a month! Our people are bamboozled by marketing gimmicks into an unthinking voter. Manipulated by adverts every corner and every street pole. Important questions that are not being asked: 1. Why give DA black people’s votes?
2. Where is land expropriation without compensation?
3. Where is justice for the VBS victims?
4. Where is justice for the Marikana massacre victims? 6. MBEKI, PRAVIN AND RAMAPHOSA CONSPIRACY AGAINST ZUMA BLF calls on Thabo Mbeki to stop attacking President Zuma on behalf of WMC. BLF believes that Ramaphosa, Mbeki and Pravin Gordhan want to ensure that the economy remains in white hands hence the vehement opposition to RET. Their target is President Zuma as the father of RET. BLF believes they want to jail President Zuma to stop the RET momentum. That is what WMC did in Brazil. BLF must expose these shenanigans because our movement has adopted RET. 7. MALEMA AND THE SECRET SOCIETY OF ADRIANO MAZZOTI, JOHANN RUPERT AND ROBIN RENWICK We must also warn our people against the shocking admission of Julius Malema into the super rich secret society at a Sandton country club called Inanda. The membership of the club is secret. There are secret rooms for meetings to sell the country out. Our sources have informed us that amongst members of the country club are criminal elements like the self-confessed cigarette smuggler and tax evader, Andriano Mazzoti, who is also Malema’s blesser. 8. XENOPHOBIA BLF will be implementing its anti-xenophobia/afrophobia business inspections from next week. The BLF Battle Plan prescribes a limit of 30% employees from outside South Africa. We shall also be asking for urgent meetings with the Vice Chancellors of Wits, UCT, UJ and UP. 9. BANYANA BANYANA VS BAFANA Yesterday BLF had a fruitful meeting with the leadership of the South African Football Association (SAFA), including Acting CEO, Russell Paul. SAFA has promised to report back to BLF next week Friday latest. 10. HIGHLIGHTS BATTLE PLAN 1. New constitution
2. Jobs
3. Sankara oath 11. FF+ APPLICATION The racist Freedom Front Plus (FF+) has yet again made an application to the Electoral Court to have BLF stopped from participating in the elections. BLF has won with a score of 2 – 0, heading towards a clean 3 – 0 defeat for the racist land thieves. FF+ is afraid of BLF. They know that unlike Malema, we can not be bought with money. They know that in parliament, BLF will agitate for the ANC and the EFF to stop playing games with the land issue. The FF+ application has no merit. How can a whites-only organization of apartheid claim to be champions of anti-racism? They want a boerestaad. Even if BLF was open to whites we would refuse Groenewalt membership on account of being an ugly moron. He is an ugly imbecile. The Neanderthal gene has expressed itself on him aggressively. We wonder if he doesn’t have a little tail. His deputy, Mulder, comes from the corrupt Afrikaner family of the ‘information scandal’ otherwise known as Muldergate, which toppled the blood thirsty Voster apartheid regime. These are degenerates! “Black” in Black Consciousness is a political definition of Steve Biko. It is not about discrimination, it is about redress. Even Blacks who are non-whites are excluded. BLF is fighting for an anti-racist society, where race doesn’t matter. This is consistent with the Constitutional provisions of redress such as Affirmative Action, Black Economic Empowerment, Employment Equity interventions and even land restitution. The FF+, Afriforum, DA, Lucy Strydom, bizarrely the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) and 19 white individuals are acting as a terrified gang to stop BLF from going to parliament. They will not succeed. Next steps: on the FF+ Matter
1. The Heads of Arguments are due today for all parties
2. Court will give direction today about when arguments are to be heard
3. We don’t know how soon there-after we would get the ruling On the DA complaint with the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC). We also shall respond today. The SAHRC and Lucy Strydom application. The ruling shall be given on the 6th of May, 2019. Two days before the elections! BLF is going to defeat all these evil attempts to stop us from being in parliament. We are going to parliament! 12. GOING TO ORANIA One of the actions BLF shall undertake before the elections is a trip to Orania to occupy some land there. We must decolonise South Africa. There can not be no-go areas for blacks. Apartheid ended in 1994. 13. Malema debate Mngxitama Finally we call on a debate before the elections between Andile Mngxitama and Julius Malema. Let the voters know the truth! Malema must stop running. In any event running away is futile because we are coming to parliament. Each member take 10 voters to vote BLF on the 8th of May. End. No related posts.