By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: History: the People’s Manifesto was drafted by Comrade Andile Mngxitama and adopted by the September Nation Imbizo (SNI) in 2011. It was also adopted by the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in 2013 as part of the deal with the SNI to work together, but the EFF abandoned it soon after the 2014 general elections and removed it from its founding Manifesto. Then the Peoples Manifesto was adopted with minor changes by Black First Land First (BLF) in 2016. The People’s Manifesto goes hand in hand with the Sankara Oath. The People’s Manifesto We promise the politicians nothing! We demand that they deliver everything! All the political parties have now published their manifestoes; the empty ritual they buy our votes with. We say 17 years of elections without change are enough. Now we make our own manifesto: We, the people of South Africa, hereby legislate a new law, titled “POLITICIANS AND PUBLIC SERVANTS: USE PUBLIC SERVICES”. This law compels all politicians, from the president to the local councilor, and all public servants, from the Director General to the sweeper and their families to use public utilities: Starting with the following: 1. Hospitals.
2. Schools.
3. Transport.
4 Housing! (The same standard house given to citizens must be used by all politicians and public servants)
5. A living wage for all!
6. Land belongs to the people Our politicians and public servants have neglected public services for far too long because they know they can take their families to the private sector. We say, what’s good for you is good for us. Equality for all, for real! Our hospitals are falling apart; doctors and nurses are overworked and underpaid. By and large our public hospitals are places of death. Simply put, no one is safe in our public hospitals. Our leaders, politicians, senior public servants and their families use private hospitals and that is why they don’t care about public hospitals which are used by the poor. Our public schools are in bad condition, teachers are underpaid and the government is not investing in their training with the result that after 12 years of schooling most children from public schools can’t read, write or count. This leads to a high unemployment rate amongst the youth who are trapped in hopelessness. Politicians and senior civil servants take their children to private schools. This explains why public schools are not a priority for them. Our public transport system is appalling. Every morning and night our people are packed into taxis, buses and trains like sardines. The queues are long and the fares are high. Our leaders, the rich and senior civil servants have big subsidies to get private transport. Some of our ministers can buy cars worth millions with tax payers’ money. The townships are generally badly serviced. The houses are small and millions are forced to live in shacks. The RDP houses built by our black government are worse than the matchbox houses built during apartheid. Our leaders live in mansions, while the people are forced to live in rat-infested townships. A living wage, the ANC and DA parties have legislated starvation minimum wages for our people. Farm workers earn a shocking R105 a day. Our government kills workers when they demand a living wage as in marikana but cabinet ministers and members of parliament give themselves millions in salaries. Land For 20 years of the ANC has delivered only 8% of land to black. It would take 100s of years to buy back our land. Why are we buying our land back? We demand that all the land be nationalised without compensation and be equitably redistributed amongst the people. We hereby commit ourselves to struggle to realize this legislation to hold public representatives and servants accountable to the people! Together let’s make this law a reality. This campaign is undertaken in the memory of Andries Tatane who was killed by our government for demanding quality services for all! Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee (BLF NCC)
12 January 2019 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664 No related posts.