By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) welcomes the invitation by the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture (Zondo Commission) to submit evidence in relation to the corrupt activities at the National Treasury, during the tenures of the former Ministers of Finance, Pravin Gordhan and Nhlanhla Nene. The criminal conduct of Gordhan and Nene relate to each of them covering up and/or being complicit in offences that were committed by their respective Deputy Ministers of Finance, Director Generals, Executive Officers, and Audit Committees etc. These crimes have resulted mainly in the disappearance of over R4.3 billion under the watch of Gordhan and Nene. BLF’s overall submission is that they both acted in service of state capture by white monopoly capital. Our submission of evidence to the Zondo Commission in this regard relates to the first of over twenty matters that we have collated evidence in relation to state capture by white monopoly capital. BLF Deputy President, Zanele Lwana, will lead the process of presenting evidence orally in the matter concerning the corruption of the Treasury under Gordhan and Nene. The provisional date for the hearing of evidence is 12 February 2019. BLF will shortly also submit evidence implicating white capital entities in state capture, including the likes of Johann Rupert, the Oppenheimers, Markus Jooste and Adriano Mazzotti. White monopoly capital has bankrupted South Africa, made us subservient to the West and is the author and facilitator of the most devastating corruption in the country. It is only BLF that has the fighting will to confront white monopoly capital so as to end its corruption and looting of the economy. Land or Death! Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee (BLF NCC) 15 January 2019 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664 No related posts.