By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) condemns the United States (US) recognition of Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaidó as Venezuela’s president and applauds the legitimate President Maduro’s move to cut all ties with the US. Guaidó’s call yesterday on Venezuela’s military to work with him is in furtherance of the US led regime change agenda in Venezuela. Maduro’s election as the President is in line with the revolutionary constitution of Venezuela. He was chosen by the progressive people of Venezuela. The US wants to replace Maduro and the PSUV government with its puppet administration led by Guaidó. This is in line with its assassination attempt on Maduro’s life in August last year, and its crippling economic embargo and diplomatic isolation of Venezuela. It did the same in Brazil when it replaced Dilma Rousseff with Michel Temer, and jailed Luiz Inácio “Lula” da Silva so as to place Jair Bolsonaro in power. In South Africa (SA) too US led imperialism replaced the progressive President Zuma with the pro West Ramaphosa as president. Significantly, President Maduro won the votes of over 2/3rds of the electorate in the 2018 presidential election. From the voter turnout of 9,389,056 Maduro obtained 5,823,728 votes, being 67.8 % of the total votes. This was a wondrous victory for Maduro and the United Socialist Party of Venezuela (PSUV). We note that Venezuela has the most advanced people-centered automated electronic voting system in the world. Moreover in the past 24 years 19 elections were conducted via this system using the fingerprint of the voter. BLF hails this system of voting as a precedent to follow in eliminating the theft of votes and electoral fraud. The US wants to restore the status it enjoyed prior Hugo Chavez taking power. It wants to coup Venezuela’s legitimate President and government so that capitalist imperialist interests can resume looting the country’s rich resources including oil and reverse all the gains of the Bolivarian Revolution. BLF further denounces the counter revolutionary regimes of Latin America who toe the line of US led imperialism to effect regime change in Venezuela. As an anti-imperialist movement we maintain our defence of President Maduro, the PSUV government and the Bolivarian Revolution. We call on Maduro and the PSUV Government to deal appropriately with Guaidó and other US lackeys in government. The US must get its filthy hands off Venezuela. BLF shall continue with its project to popularize the ‘Hands Off Maduro and PSUV Government’ campaign – including engaging in protest action at the USA embassy and countering the lies told by the white owned media about what’s going on in Venezuela. Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC) 26 January 2019 Contact details Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za International Relations Secretary: Shantha Balakrishna
Cell number: +27 72 114 3670 Deputy President: Zanele Lwana
Cell: +27799867225 National Spokesperson: Lindsay Maasdorp
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Head of Media & Communications: Brian Tloubatla
Cell: +27 82 216 7664 No related posts.