1. The church is separated from the state. 2. Within the territory of the Republic the passing of any local laws or regulations limiting or interfering with freedom of conscience or granting special rights or privileges to citizens because they belong to a certain faith is forbidden. 3. Every citizen has a right to adopt any religion or not to adopt any at all. Every legal restriction connected with the profession of certain faiths or with the non-profession of any faith is now abolished. Note: Official acts shall make no mention of a citizen’s faith. 4. State or semi-official public functions are not to be accompanied by religious ceremonies or rituals. 5. Religious performances may be carried on freely in so far as they do not disturb the public order or encroach upon the rights of citizens of the Russian Republic. Local authorities have the right to take the necessary measures to preserve order and safeguard the rights of citizens. 6. No one can decline to carry out his civic duties on the ground of his religious views. Exception to this ruling may be made by special decisions of the people’s court provided one civic duty is substituted for another. 7. Religious oaths are abolished. In case of necessity a solemn promise will suffice. 8. All civil acts are performed exclusively by the civic authorities [in charge of] the department for the registration of marriages and births. 9. The school is separated from the church. The teaching of religion in state and public schools, as well as in private schools where general subjects are taught, is forbidden. Citizens may study or teach religious subjects privately. 10. Church and religious societies are subject to the same laws and regulations as private societies and unions. They do not enjoy any special privileges or subsidies from the state or from local institutions. 11. The levying of obligatory collections or imposition for the benefit of church or religious societies is forbidden. These organizations are forbidden also to coerce or punish their members. 12. Church and religious societies have no right to own property. They do not have the rights of a legal person. 13. All property in Russia now owned by churches and religious organizations is henceforth the property of the people. Buildings and objects that are needed for religious services revert to the free use of religious organizations by special arrangement with the central or local [Soviet] authorities. ULIANOV (LENIN) President of the Sovnarkom (Council of People’s Commissars) PODVOISKY, ALGASOV, TRUTOVSKY, SCHLICHTER, PROSHIAN, MENZHINSKY, SHLIAPNIKOV, PETROVSKY People’s Commissars This decree was written on February 5, 1918 and subsequently passed by the Council of People’s Commissars under the presidency of V.I. Lenin. It was previously published on the marxists.org website No related posts.