Military base in Pretoria robbed of 19 R4 automatic rifles. Photo credit: News24 Nineteen R4 assault rifles were stolen from the Engineering Formation’s HQ Unit situated at the Lyttelton Tek Army Base in Pretoria and yet President Ramaphosa and his Minister of Defence, Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, have gone AWOL. The defence ministry has issued disjointed and often meaningless responses in the media on this massive breach of national security. There is no sense of urgency or seriousness around this shocking development. The reaction of Ramaphosa on this matter is like that of someone who is helping friends to get away with a crime. The nation has not been kept informed. We have to rely on media reports generated from another source which seems to have an interest in this crime against the people. Pikkie Greef, the national secretary of the SA National Defence Union (SANDU), has been at the forefront misleading the nation on what is happening with those accused of the robbery and the weapons stolen. The Court of a (Senior) Military Judge (C(S)MJ), which has denied the applications by the accused persons to be released from custody, seems to itself be shambolic and panicked. Furthermore, it looks like the arrests were made in haste just to give the impression that something is being done. We won’t be suprised if the arrested persons were released. The manner in which the government at the highest level has dealt with this serious threat to national security, suggests that a cover-up is being brewed. 19 R4 assault rifles are gone and there is calm at the Union Buildings. The theft of such serious weapons, within the context of organized right wing militias and the open declaration by Johann Rupert that he has a private army, begs the question whether these arms are not in the hands of those who sponsored the CR17 campaign. Black First Land First (BLF) calls on Ramaphosa to address the nation on what happened at the army base. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 This statement was issued by BLF on 28 December 2019. No related posts.