By Andile Mngxitama Since we are oppressed not as a tribe class or gender but because we are black, the most appropriate ideology for our liberation is black nationalism. I really don’t mind if you call it African nationalism. The enemy remains as it was since the white versus black encounter. The primary contradiction remains white supremacy which in the economic sphere manifests as white monopoly capital (WMC). The only adequate antidote is Radical Black Nationalism which in turn is anti capitalist whilst harnessing all the black strata towards the fight against white supremacy. Therefore, the ideology of black liberalism as espoused by Herman Mashaba and Mmusi Maimane is not only undesirable but also harmful to black liberation. Mashaba and Maimane will use xenophobia as a mobilizing approach, ironically in service of WMC. This xenophobic political mobilization may bring in some votes but at a great social cost. WMC may sponsor such a project because it deflects attention from the root cause, which is WMC. Alongside this xenophobic mobilization the pseudo Pan Africanism, or what I have called the Pan Afrikanism of Cecil John Rhodes which is promoted by Mashaba’s friends in red overalls, will thrive. It seeks to open Africa up for WMC exploitation and also to facilitate cross border criminal activities. It has nothing to do with the Pan Afrikanism of Kwame Nkrumah. The point is that the Reds of Mazzotti will continue to opportunistically call for the opening up of the border while in reality their political ally, the Democratic Alliance (DA), will continue to say to blacks entering the country “go back home!” It’s a cynical right wing political project in service of WMC. Then you have murmurs of nascent anarchist political formations. Save to say that all revolutionary leftist movements must be open to some anarchist practices at certain stages of the development of the revolutionary process, Mikhail Bakunin has no future in Afrika. The anarchist strand may be popular within sections of the students but it has no future as an organizing ideological framework. Radical Black Nationalism, as embodied in Black Consciousness, is the homegrown ideological and philosophical response to settler colonialism and white supremacy. The future is BLACK! 2020 is the year of Awakening and Organizing! Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization. No related posts.