By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website: Black First Land First (BLF) is not surprised that white people, white farmers in particular, continue to meet violence against black people. This is because they have been emboldened by, the outcomes of the elections which excluded BLF; the banning order which was imposed on BLF; and the fact that the Freedom Front Plus (FF+) and other racist organizations, such as Afriforum, control the courts. Racists have been encouraged by the fact that the main parties in Parliament are all in the pockets of white monopoly capital (WMC). Individual acts of racism are growing once more because black people do not have a political movement which would defend them. Furthermore, the manner in which the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) and the courts are used against those seen as supporters of Radical Economic Transformation (RET) has also emboldened these racists. On November 10 this year the victim, a black subsistence farmer from Snakepark in Soweto whose identity has been protected, was subjected to police rape, kidnapping and attempted murder. He subsequently filed a case in this regard with the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) and Independent Police Investigative Department (IPID) against the 8 white police officers who committed the odious crimes. He was reportedly kidnapped, severely brutalized, raped and thrown with a rope around his neck into a mine hole, into which the perpetrators also unleashed a police dog on him, amongst other things. BLF will stand with the victim. We will monitor the case and demand justice. BLF calls on the Minister of Police and the Minister of Justice to prioritize this case of heinous crimes committed by the vile racists who we believe are in cahoots with the police in Ventersdorp. We call for the institution of a Judicial Commission of Inquiry into the conduct of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) and the police in relation to the Ventersdorp Police Station and Ventersdorp itself. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 14 December 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.