By Andile Mngxitama The victory of the African National Congress (ANC) against the unholy alliance of DAEFF – being the Democratic Alliance (DA) and the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) – in the City of Johannesburg Metropolitan Municipality (Joburg metro) signifies the end of one era and the beginning of another. Essentially DAEFF has reached its sell-by date as a consequence of the emergence of Cyril Ramaphosa’s ANC. The DAEFF coalition was concocted in London by the loyal servant of the British Queen, Lord Robin Renwick. The EFF returned from London in 2015 after a meeting with Renwick in which they spoke about the organization’s coalition with the DA – the party of white supremacy and white monopoly capital (WMC). All of a sudden the DA was “the better devil” even as the party’s Western Cape Premier, Helen Zille, praised colonialism; and Member of Parliament Dianne Kohler Barnard praised the mass murderer PW Botha. The lessons of the rise and fall of DAEFF are too pertinent not to be meditated upon. Firstly, DAEFF has proven beyond reasonable doubt that the EFF is a tool of white power and that its so called Marxism Leninism is nothing but a cover for its de facto rightwing nature. This explains why when President Zuma fired the darling of WMC, Pravin Gordhan, the EFF was in the forefront marching hand in hand with the captains of white industry and rightwing racist organizations like the Freedom Front Plus (FF+) in defence of him. Off course they are now against him to save their corrupt skins. It must be remembered that the EFF was against every single black CEO in the State Owned Enterprises from SAA; SABC; DENEL; Eskom and etc. Now all these have generally white leadership thanks to EFF. The second lesson of the ANC victory is that with the ascendance of Cyril Ramaphosa; Robin Renwick and Stellenbosch doesnt need the EFF anymore. WMC is no longer hostile to the ANC because Zuma is no longer President. In fact the DA regards Ramaphosa as its de facto president. In this new configuration the EFF has been rendered irrelevant as an ally and its neutralised politically by the corruption of its President and Deputy President. The leadership of EFF was allowed to loot VBS and to engage in multiple tender corruption in both Tshwane and Joburg Metro. It was allow these crimes as long as they were active agents of WMC against Zuma. BLF believes that the meeting between Johann Rupert and Floyd Shivambu is proof enough that the EFF had surrendered to WMC for Louis Vuittons, Range Rovers and Sandton houses. Rupert must have given some assurances to the EFF as Shivambu assumed the role Rupert’s political adviser. It must be remembered that Rupert says he was adviced by Shivambu to attend the disastrous PowerFM event where he made a fool of himself including exposing himself as a war lord with a private militia in the taxi industry. Of course that’s before Rupert insulted his advisers, calling Malema a little Venda chap in a red beret. That revelation is instructive because it reveals an esoteric piece of data known by a few close friends of the leader of EFF. The implication of being entangled in corruption and the ascendancy of Ramaphosa is that the EFF can’t challenge WMC. Each time the EFF makes a move, its leadership is threatened by the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) which has more than enough evidence of the corrupt dealings of Malema and Shivambu. This explains why in the reinstated corruption case against Malema’s On Point in Limpopo, Malema has not been charged. There is no good reason for his exclusion except that it serves as a mechanism to keep him on ice. No wonder there has been so little talk of land expropriation without compensation lately. Immediately after the 2016 Local Government Elections I wrote a letter to Malema asking him to use the votes that the EFF has won to advace the revolutionary demands for land and economic freedom by giving the ANC the metros under strict conditions to change the national policy. The letter also warned against a political alliance with land thieves and racists. But Malema chose the lucrative path of DAEFF as instructed by Robin Renwick and gave Helen Zille political power. This was in exchange for the EFF controlling some tenders as report after report has show. The ANC has now reclaimed the Joburg metro and has thereby been reinstated in the status qou ante. It’s as if the great electoral upheaval of 2016 never happened. The biggest political losers in the ANC victory is the EFF which has now been rendered irrelevant. Moreover if the ANC chooses to open the books, more corruption will be uncovered in the tender system since 2016 in which the EFF will be implicated even further. In historic terms, it’s also black people who have lost because the EFF refused to use the unique situation it found itself in to advance the agenda of economic freedom through crafting a principled coalition with the ANC. The real victors in this arrangement is ironically the DA and Stellenbosch. The ANC under Ramaphosa is proceeding at full throttle towards handing over state owned assets to the sponsors of Ramaphosa’s CR17 campaign, to claim the ANC Presidency. The development in the Joburg metro vindicates BLF’s assertion that after the 2019 elections there is only one party in parliament and that’s the party of WMC, even if it comes in different colours. The question remains, are there any serious Marxist Leninists left in the EFF to hold its openly captured leadership, accountable? The EFF is held hostage by the corruption of its leaders. Basically, corruption has made Juluis Malema an askari. He can’t pursue the black agenda because of the piles of receipts that prove that his Louis Vuitton life style of corruption was sponsored by WMC. Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization. No related posts.