Andile Mngxitama Cyril Ramaphosa seems to be one of the sugar daddies of Julius Malema, amongst others such as Adriano Mazzotti and Johann Rupert. It’s been a year since the administration of Ramaphosa gifted Malema with blue-light protection on what seems like the flimsiest of excuses. Apparently, Malema received threatening calls and walla, blue-light services were delivered. Which political leader in South Africa (SA) doesn’t get threatening calls on a daily basis? This lavish state protection from Ramaphosa and the fact that he has also been financially sponsoring some of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) members of parliament, explains why the party has been so well behaved in parliament Clearly, Ramaphosa must have known how much Malema craves the trappings of power. It must be remembered that at the height of his power, after helping Jacob Zuma topple Thabo Mbeki in Polokwane, Malema was able to command the police to give him a blue-light escort to board a plane to that tender sponsored wedding in Mauritius in 2011. We remember that occassion of gluttonous consumption as expressed by Malema in a purple suit. That an ordinary citizen could get the police to clear the highway for him to catch a flight to a wedding, talks to the addiction to conspicuous consumption that Frantz Fanon warned about. It looks like for helping WMC to remove Zuma, Malema has been elevated to the same status as a Minister and enjoys his Louis Vuitton lifestyle under the blue-light protection of the state. Malema is clearly still the good life loving chap of the African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL). It’s little wonder that he has recently told the media that his lifestyle follows that of previous state presidents like Nelson Mandela and Mbeki. As they assess their organization, EFF revolutionaries must ask, “how can one who is so well protected and fettered by a neocolonial state lead the revolution?” Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization. No related posts.