Photo credit: Twitter, @Vusumzi_Gqalane By Andile Mngxitama Elective conferences are rigged in South Africa (SA). The ongoing Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) National People’s Assembly (NPA), has declared an un-audited bill of costs of R32 million. There is reason to believe that this is a huge under declaration of costs for the NPA. A basic division of this declared figure by four thousand delegates amounts to R8000 per delegate. This is a staggering amount by any count. The question is, why give delegates this VIP treatment? The answer is simple. It’s Nasrec 2. Remember, Cyril Ramaphosa spent R1 billion to buy Nasrec 1. There are several ways to buy a conference. One way is to openly circulate money; the other is to give delegates a vacation. It’s often a combination of the two. It practically means making sure that transport is good, hotels are booked, and alcohol is provided. Then the cash flows. The hotels are also places to quarantine delegates so as to ensure that they aren’t “poached” by rival slates. Social media reports indicate that some of the posh hotels in Johannesburg are booked for conference delegates. Any conteder without serious financial backing must forget succeeding. Money talks in SA politics. The tragedy is to witness how the EFF has become exactly like the African National Congress (ANC). The only ideology that rules is money. We know that R1 billion in bribes, paid for by white monopoly capital (WMC), was used to buy Nasrec 1. Who is paying for the heist of Nasrec 2? EFF membership is largely made up of the unemployed poverty stricken black youth who want change. Now it looks like the party bosses use money to corrupt the souls of this youth instead of forging them into a revolutionary force of change. The irony of this VIP lifestyle experience for the poor at the cost of millions, happens at the same time that the landless are suffering from the devastating effects of the floods that has plunged them into even more homelessness and destitution. Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization. No related posts.