Photo credit: Herald.IVE By BO Staff Writer Over 120,000 people are expected to attend the annual crossover service on Saturday that will be hosted by Prophet Shepherd Bushiri’s Enlightened Christian Gathering (ECG) church. The 2019 service, which has been dubbed the ‘Night of God’s Open Hands’, will take place at Joburg’s FNB stadium on New Year’s Eve. In a report published by Sowetan LIVE on 28 December, titled, “Thousands to attend controversial Prophet Shepherd Bushiri’s New Year’s Eve service”, the journalist Nomahlubi Jordaan describes Prophet Bushiri as “controversial” at least two times. Black First Land First (BLF) President, Andile Mngxitama, denounced the derogatory referencing of Prophet Bushiri aka Major 1. “This white owned media (Sowetan LIVE) hates Major 1. They will never call the Johann Rupert loving Archbishop Thabo Makgoba of the colonial Anglican church “controversial”. I hate this hypocrisy. Treat Major 1 like you treat all”, he said. “It’s an open secret that the Anglican Archbishop Makgoba is sponsored by Johann Rupert. Recently the Archbishop declared 2020 to be the year of the orange jumpsuit. In so doing he was thinking of the best way to contain the political enemies of Rupert“, Mngxitama elaborated In January Bushiri was falsely accused of being responsible for a stampede at his church that resulted in 3 being killed and 17 others injured. The CRL Commission subsequently absolved Bushiri of any guilt in this regard. Shortly thereafter Bushiri and his wife were accused of and arrested for various crimes, including fraud and money laundering. “The persecution of Bushiri and his wife was all part of a white monopoly capital (WMC) sponsored campaign to shut down black churches and their leaders that are problematic to it. In the meantime the clergy‘s sins in white churches, and in black churches working in cahoots with WMC, go unpunished”, Mngxitama explained. The full Sowetan LIVE report by Jordan can be accessed via the link, https://www.sowetanlive.co.za/news/south-africa/2019-12-28-thousands-to-attend-controversial-prophet-shepherd-bushiris-new-years-eve-service/?fbclid=IwAR0d_fny-PjdBITdfqCRJezQa-v4cd5awnAPrRxxbZfxC_kgJlWGSFQVS6s No related posts.