Photo credit: CNN.COM By BO Staff Writer Up until the 1940s, black women were prevented from contesting the Miss America pageant. Moreover the first black woman only contested 3 decades later; and the first black Miss USA was only crowned 5 decades later in 1990. And then in December this year Miss Universe, Miss World, Miss America, Miss USA, Miss Teen USA and Miss France are all blacks. Andile Mngxitama, the President of Black First Land First (BLF), applauded Zozibini Tunzi, on her achievement in being crowned the new Miss Universe. “I have huge ideological difficulties with beauty pageants. I’m from a generation that read the THE BEAUTY MYTH and NO LOGO. But there is something special about the current Miss SA and now Miss Universe. There is great potential to lay siege on the monstrosity of the global beauty industry. A kind of a trojan horse move. I hope it happens. Congratulations leadership”, Mngxitama said “I think black women need this,” Nia Franklin, Miss America 2019 reportedly said. “It’s a symbol, and it shows that no matter where you’re from, what country you’re from … you can be successful”, she elaborated South Africa’s Zozibini Tunzi who was crowned Miss Universe this month, brought into question the traditional framework of beauty. “I grew up in a world where a woman who looks like me — with my kind of skin and my kind of hair — was never considered to be beautiful. .. I think it is time that that stops today”, she said during the pageant, before winning the title. Mngxitama further raised crucial questions about why black women are suddenly – and all around the same time – winning high profile beauty pageants. “Pardon me. I’m paranoid. Why now? Black people have always been beautiful and brilliant. Why are they allowing us to shine now? What’s their evil plan behind this? If you are black and not paranoid, it’s because you have reconciled yourself to your oppression. I know these people. I see that even Natasha Mazzone, the arch racist who is DA’s chief whip in parliament, is saying blacks are winners. Let’s look deeper my people. These people are up to no good. No good”, he cautioned. No related posts.