By BO Staff Writer In September 2019 Black First Land First (BLF) announced that it will be holding a Special Policy Conference (SPC) on 30 November in KwaZulu-Natal (KZN); and that the conference will decide on how to unban the movement by considering options articulated in the discussion document that it made available for perusal. BLF had been deregistered in July 2019 by the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) at the instance of the racist whites only Freedom Front Plus (FF+). The SPC guidelines were also made available for engagement. The conference documents were published online and are accessible as follows: 1. Policy Discussion Document via the link,
https://blf.org.za/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/preview-12.pdf 2. Special Policy Conference Guidelines via the link,
https://blf.org.za/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/BLF-Special-Policy-Conference-Guidelines.pdf On 30 November 2019 Black First Land First (BLF) accordingly held its SPC in the Denis Hurley Centre, in eThekwini, KwaZulu-Natal. Black Opinion presents an image story of the SPC:    “As we go to the Black First Land First (BLF) Special Policy Conference, I ask myself: How are we going to help our people understand that there is a conspiracy against them to keep them locked out? How do we educate and organize for black liberation? How do we make sure our people are ready for their own thing and they can defend it? Them white folk’s organizations aren’t fronts for black interests, like all our important organizations are. You vote for the African National Congress (ANC), you vote for Stellenbosch. You vote for the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), you vote for Stellenbosch. You vote for the Democratic Alliance (DA), you vote for Stellenbosch. Where is our thing? How do we build our thing? How do we make black people understand that we are in the middle of a war? Today we go to court. Yes again! Solidarity the labour wing of white interests took us to court and they will win today. A black judge is going to rule against us. It’s all a set up! We are going to Durban tomorrow to do our own thing. Have you helped with a donation? Are you coming to make a contribution to BLF’s Special Policy Conference? Did you send an email to help guide us? Who must build this black thing if not you? Good morning black people. No! Black Friday ain’t your thing, just like your organisations and leaders ain’t your thing… #UnBanBLF” – message of BLF President, Andile Mngxitama, a day before the SPC Read the Presidential Adress at the SPC via this link: 
SKMBT_C36419100315060 BLF Special Policy Conference Address President F                            1. The SPC notes that: a. the South African Constitution is anti-black and pro white.;
b. Black people were not liberated in 1994 – instead white oppression was given legitimacy;
c. the banning of BLF proves beyond reasonable doubt that 1994 changed fokol; and
d. occupied Azania (South Africa), which was stolen by whites in 1652 upon the arrival of European settler colonialists, belongs to black people. 2. The SPC further observes that: a. BLF currently represents undiluted black nationalism;
b. the parties of land thieves and white monopoly capital (WMC) are scared of BLF because it cannot be bought or intimidated;
c. the existence of BLF threatens white supremacy which is protected by the constitution; and
d. the judiciary has been used by the ruling class to criminalize BLF. 3. The SPC also recognizes that: a. white people represent the oppressor group in South Africa;
b. white people benefited and continue to benefit from slavery, colonialism, apartheid and capitalism;
c. Black people are the victims of white oppression globally; and
d. There is no ethical or ideologically sound reason to believe that white people can ever be allies of black people in our fight for liberation. 4. The SPC moreover believes that: a. it is an important principle of revolutionary war to adopt the Maoist adage that, “we should support whatever the enemy opposes and oppose whatever the enemy supports”.
b. all warfare is based on deception, as Sun Tzu has observed; and
c. the oppressed have no obligation of telling the truth to the oppressor. 5. The SPC further notes that: a. the parties of white power are determined to deny black people a black party that represents their interests in the formal political space;
b. currently white power wants to keep parliament and all the other formal political processes white, by excluding BLF from such processes; and
c. the law, as it is currently structured, favours white power. 6. The SPC recognizes BLF’s commitment to: a. struggle by any means necessary to overthrow the current constitutional dispensation, which is pro white;
b. struggle to bring about a pro black Constitution.
c. Deny the representatives of white power the space to maneuver for the exclusion of BLF from parliament. 7. The SPC therefore resolves that: a. The main objective of BLF is the liberation of black people from the system of white supremacy, which oppresses black people for the benefit of whites.
b. Membership of BLF is open to all who agree to the following: i. South Africa (SA) belongs to black people.
ii. SA was stolen from black people by white people.
iii. White people arrived in SA in 1652 and are therefore not indigenous people of this country.
iv. White people are therefore colonialists who also implemented apartheid against black people.
v. The 1994 Constitution is anti-black and must be replaced by a pro black constitution of redress.
vi. White people must not only return the stolen land, they must also pay reparations to black people for colonialism and apartheid. 8. The SPC declares 2020 the year of awakening and organizing. 9. The SPC further unanimously adopts Option 3 of the policy discussion document. 10. The SPC takes note that: a. the implication of adopting option three is that BLF shall reregister with the IEC at an appropriate time without abandoning its pro black stance;
b. BLF shall also register as a civil society organization to fullfill its mission of the liberation of black people.
c. amending the Constitution of BLF will serve to meet the requirements of the IEC and not to accept land thieves as members; and
d. BLF has no obligation to accept members of the oppressor group as its members. Read the full BLF eThekwini Declaration via the link,                    No related posts.