By Andile Mngxitama Part 1 “Sometimes people hold a core belief that is very strong. When they are presented with evidence that works against that belief, the new evidence cannot be accepted. It would create a feeling that is extremely uncomfortable, called cognitive dissonance. And because it is so important to protect the core belief, they will rationalize, ignore and even deny anything that doesn’t fit in with the core belief.” – Frantz Fanon Introduction In this contribution we take a critical look at the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), specifically how it has morphed from a promising radical Marxist-Leninst-Fanonian party into a tool of white monopoly capital (WMC) in order to service the insatiable appetite for consumption of its top leaders. The EFF has become the party of neo-colonialism which Frantz Fanon had warned us about. Ironically, the EFF is a party with the most potential for a revolutionary upheaval in the short term. However, it is held at ransom by the addiction of its top leaders for the lifestyle of Louis Vuitton, Range Rovers and posh houses in Sandton. In order to understand the evolution of the EFF into the de facto right whilst rhetorically being left, one has to understand its genesis inside the intestines of the African National Congress (ANC). It is this circumstance of birth which explains why a swift right wing shift was possible. However, as part one of this meditation shows, this right turn was not an inevitable outcome. This contribution is divided into three parts. Part 1 deals with the vicissitudes of the Janus-faced birth of the EFF. Part two addresses the EFF’s ideological right wing shift and its strategies of self validation. The question for instance of how a Marxist Leninist party can find common cause with a political party of white supremacy and radical free market ideology like the Democratic Alliance (DA), is examined. Part three deals largely with the implication of corruption in taming the revolution and turning the leadership into askaris of London and Stellenbosch. It also canvasses some general preliminary concluding comments on the possible ways that genuine radicals inside the ANC and EFF as well as in movements like Black First Land First (BLF) could find common cause on a minimum independent programme such as Radical Economic Transformation (RET). Why care? The EFF, being the third largest electoral political party, is holding its important National People’s Assembly (NPA) from December 13 to 16 in Nasrec. Its top leaders have been able to deflect any serious self-criticism by members through attacking its student wing. This attack has absorbed all the possible critical commentary. In this context the student wing, its sympathizers, the media, and commentators are now focused on the fate of the EFF’s student command. This is one of the well-developed strategies of the EFF leadership to avoid any accounting for its right wing anti-black practices. They have become adept at raising the false flag. The decoy of the student command debate shall be masterly concluded in a collective sigh of relief. To this end, when the so called Commander in Chief (CiC) becomes Santa Claus bearing gifts and declares at the closing of the conference how important the student command is, they will clap and thank him for such kindness, understanding and empathy. The main lesson here is that the decoy shall have worked because no real evaluation of the party’s political conduct shall have been undertaken. Secondly, it shows just how cynical and manipulative the leadership of the EFF have become. They don’t care that for months they have kept the student wing in a permanent state of anxiety. This panic shall have been used as a means to an end and that’s all that matters. But more importantly, the very same students are going to be grateful that they have been saved and their voices heard. It’s like a psychopath who creates a crisis and act as a saviour. The unethical conduct of the EFF leadership throwing their members under the bus to serve their own selfish interests, is one of the now well established raison d’être of the EFF. It is political sociopathic behaviour. Recognizing the fact that there shall be no real assessment of how the EFF has moved to the right while proclaiming itself left, necessitate this commentary. This meditation shall provide an assessment of the achievements, ideological orientation and the place of the EFF in the liberation struggle of our people. This is a preliminary critical assessment as part of the ideological clarification of the radical tradition that seeks to galvanize our people towards total liberation. All political parties, leaders and individuals who proclaim to fight for our liberation has, by that fact alone, given all involved in the struggle the right to comment on their conduct and practices. It is therefore our revolutionary duty to give our assessment of the party that proclaims the lofty ideology of Marxism, Leninism – they have long abandoned Fanonism by all accounts. We will do well to remember that all of revolutionary history is littered with examples of this sort of outsider critical assessment. Our objective is obviously to expose the unresolvable contradictions of the EFF so that militants are empowered to understand why their party is refusing to behave in the manner expected of a revolutionary party. Too many young people are sacrificing their futures with the understanding that they are contributing to a revolutionary cause when in fact they are building a machine of reaction. This task of critiquing the right wing in the ranks of the revolutionary movement is painful and provokes passions but must be undertaken. Steve Biko spent a lot of time exposing not so much the apartheid regime itself but rather the white liberals who proclaimed to be the friends of the natives. In this regard, V.I. Lenin’s major polemics went to fellow travellers and former comrades who branched into the Menshevics. Lenin practically says little about Tsar Nicholas II. What is there so say about London, Stellenbosch and the likes of Adriano Mazzotti except that their entire regime of power, accumulation, exploitation and oppression is the main target of our efforts? Babylon must fall! Conception in corruption The EFF is objectively the creation of political developments in South Africa (SA) since 1994. The ruling party had by 2007 in its watershed conference in Polokwane shown the exhaustion and limitation of the compromise crafted by Nelson Mandela to give nominal political power to black people through the vote while white people held on to the country and its wealth. Mandela’s deal, whatever its weaknesses, did place a large section of the state in the hands of black people. This development, within a truly revolutionary movement, should have been of great tactical advantage. However, the ruling party chose to turn the tactical compromise into a strategic objective. Instead of advancing to victory via the tactical advantage inherent in their proximity to state power, the ruling party’s leadership fell in love with the trappings of power and the limited economic benefits thrown from the tables of the ruling class, which in turn remained WMC. In lieu of using the weapon of relative political power to lay siege on the enemy, the ANC folded and chose to use this weapon to serve the same enemy that was to be vanquished. The critical consequence of failure to advance the revolutionary project meant that the economic power and benefits were locked in the hands of WMC. Therefore, the only way to sponsor their petty bourgeois lifestyles was to use the state to accumulate the required capital for consumption – partly through direct theft by tenders and also much more elegantly by prostituting state power for favors from the ruling class, being WMC. In other words, WMC would reward those who have political influence to allow it to continue its dominance over the economy. Ipso facto the owners of the economy are the owners of political power in the final analysis. Political power is of use to the oppressed if it perceives itself as an insurgent force to overcome the holders of real power. The ANC retreated from this revolutionary task and found accommodation in bondage. To access this important currency called state power, one had to be in the leadership of the ANC because of the electoral superiority of the ANC – whoever is the president of the ANC is automatically the President of the country. It follows further that those who are part of the move to conquer the presidency of the ANC shall become beneficiaries of state tenders and WMC gifts. Essentially, failure to advance from the tactical retreat that Mandela crafted meant that accumulation for consumption could only be realised by corruption. To repeat the same thing differently, corruption is a structural outcome of the failure to transform the apartheid economic structure. However, to be a beneficiary of this corruption one needs to be close to state power. Elective conferences of the ANC become the ritual to power to access tenders and economic favours from white capital. The intra ANC conflict that gives rise to factions vying for positions in these elective conferences, is the direct result of this path to tenders. The faction in power is unable to accommodate everyone including members of its own faction, let alone those it has defeated. So the vanquished start plotting for the next conference almost immediately after their defeat, often making common cause with the newly excluded who had hoped that victory of their faction would ensure the flow of tenders. The door to tenders is victory at the conference. So they endure the next five years of huger and anger whilst plotting. The factions are rarely ideological despite fashioning their identities as such. The same process is playing itself out in the EFF factions vying for power currently. Towards Polokwane it was the people’s choice led by Jacob Zuma versus the 1996 class project of Thabo Mbeki. These labels are self-fashioned by the protagonists and mean nothing in reality. Perhaps the last ANC conference can be credited with having, for the first time, a real ideological split between the so called “New Dawn” of white capital on the one hand, and the RET forces on the other hand. This was expressed as the CR17 versus NDZ slates respectively. WMC understood what was at stake and terrified of the alleged Gupta hand in the development of the RET forces, went on an offensive and dropped a bag of R1 billion for the CR17 campaign to buy itself the conference! It was game over for the RET faction. Of course the courts were also long subdued by the ideological influence of WMC. The birth of the “state capture” mantra did the rest. The moral corruption of the ANC leaders was encouraged by capital from the beginning. Mandela was pampered by capital as he stepped out of prison into the comfort of victory. Thabo Mbeki was treated similarly. He returned from exile to some kind of network of comfort. Zuma had to make his Houghton in Nkandla much later in the day. He was not expected to ascend to power. Furthermore, soon after 1994 there was the open corruption of the ANC youth leaders by the likes of Brett Kebble. However, this was just the vulgarisation of an established pattern of moral corruption which didn’t even escape Nelson Mandela as already indicated. The leader of the EFF, Julius Malema, recently defended his expensive lifestyle. “Mandela stayed in Houghton, Thabo Mbeki stays in Houghton and Kgalema Motlanthe stays in Houghton – but no one has ever doubted their commitment to fight for the poor because of where they stay”, Malema told the media. “There are rules for certain people and different rules for the hated ones. I will not accept that. There is nothing I am doing that our leaders, who are loved – [by] rich and poor – have not done. I am following in their footsteps”, he explained. Malema also claimed that he was puzzled that questions about his lifestyle persisted when “it is not a secret that I wear Louis Vuitton and Gucci”. “I buy those things with my own money, not government money, and have never said to anyone – media and the electorate – that I do not wear Louis Vuitton,” he elaborated. In conclusion of his defence, Malema said that the poor have voted for him without him making any promises of riding a motorbike like Thomas Sankara. This was, of course, part of the strategic amnesia that is the main tool of the EFF to enable it to make the kind of ideological flip flopping we have seen. I shall deal with in part 11. Malema’s quotations are for now used for the purpose of explaining how the ANC leadership got addicted to conspicuous consumption which is in turn a deep culture cultivated by white capital to easily control and capture the ANC. Malema is an addict of consumption. We shall later show how this addiction to Louis Vuitton, Range Rovers and Sandton houses is a perfect tool that has turned the leaders of the EFF into askaris of white capital. The point being driven here is simple – the leadership of the ANC needed the state to enable them to either steal through tenders or to avail themselves to be bribed by WMC to do its bidding. In exchange, capital gave gifts of money that enabled these leaders to feed their addiction to conspicuous consumption. Malema is staking his claim – “if Mandela did it, why can’t I do it too?”.
When the faction of Zuma won in Polokwane Malema and his close comrades, having played a huge part in Zuma’s elevation to the ultimate office, now believed that it was their turn to eat! Malema started almost immediately aggressively controlling tenders in Limpopo. The looting was vast and sustained to a point where others claimed it finally collapsed the finances of that province. Tales were told of how powerful the young man from Limpopo had become after the Zuma victory. Members of Executive Councils (MECs) from the different provinces were regularly summoned to Luthuli House to meet Malema who would determine what tender should go where, according to some accounts. With this power, arrogance also grew. Malema seemed to have believed that because he had claimed “to kill for Zuma“ as part of the siege of Polokwane that toppled Thabo Mbeki, Zuma was his captive. So he openly defied Zuma. More and more people within the state revered the powerful vulgar young man anointed a future leader by Zuma himself. This was confirmed by the powerful voice of the late icon Winnie Madikizela Mandela. Rumours floated that Malema had longer queues of visitors than the President of the party himself at the party’s head quarters. Post the Polokwane victory was the time to eat. The young man was on the roll. On a salary of R20 000 a month, he demolished his R3.5 million house in Sandton and rebuilt one for R20 million, allegedly with a bunker. Zuma was forced to moved on the petulant young man who now believed that he could install the next puppet in the form of Kgalema Motlanthe at the ANC’s Mangaung conference. But he failed in Mangaung and his fortunes came to a crushing halt. Books were opened and a South African Revenue Service (SARS) tax bill of R20 million was calculated from his earnings. Malema’s houses and farms were auctioned by the taxman. Criminal cases were also opened against him. The odyssey had come to an end. The Public Protector (PP) joined the dots and pointed to a brazen tender scheme of kickbacks and interlocking directorships to facilitate the flow of money. He was expelled ostensibly for his politics not for his corruption. From there the path was open for the founding of the EFF. The man needed the next meal ticket. The youth needed a leader. Malema stepped forward. He rebranded himself a Marxist Leninist Fanonian leader with a commitment to the Sankara Oath. EFF was founded on the backdrop of systematic corruption and consumption wars, but it needed not to be corrupt itself. It is important to locate the emergence of the EFF on this objective basis, not on what the subjective claims of its leaders are. The EFF is the natural product of the failure of the ANC to transform the apartheid economic structure so as to ensure that black people enter the economy in a serious way. Because of the limited scope for the disbursement of state tenders and bribery by capital, internal conflict results which in turn is mediated by elective conferences. Julius Malema won in Polokwane and got too greedy and cocky. He offended those he should have kept close. He challenged the throne through a proxy in Mangaung and failed. This intra party conflict for tenders and favours from WMC is real. It essentially points to the exhaustion and limitations of the Mandela deal. The political scene was ripe by 2012 for a break from the Madiba deal. It was a classical situation of Gramsci’s interregnum – the old refusing to die and the new refusing to be born. The result of this stasis in the dominant and hegemonic ruling party was the birth of the EFF covered in dual birthmarks – birthmarks of corruption and potential for revolutionary advance at the same time. The trajectory of EFF was not predetermined at birth. There was nothing inevitable about it. It could have chosen the path of Fanon and Sankara in service of the people, or the path of Louis Vuitton and Range Rovers in service of the same old corrupt gluttonous ways of the loins of the ANC from whence it was sired. We need to emphasize that the question of choice and revolutionary agency was always there. The conditions were perfect for a leftwing move. Recognizing the mood of the youth for a radical movement, the initiators of the EFF presented a call that was guided by seven cardinal pillars which satisfied the desires of the excluded youth. These pillars in rhetoric decisively broke with the Madiba compromise. It was clear that a new project had to be based on a new radical trajectory. This the initiators of EFF understood and addressed in form. The essence was always going to be determined by practice. The September National Imbizo (SNI), of which the author was a member, responded to the EFF’s call with a sympathetic critique. The economism of the EFF’s call was recognized. However, the fact that it sufficiently pointed to a new possibility meant that it was a project worth joining at its infacy to help shape its very ideological contours. We needed to lock Juju in a revolutionary ethic. So we joined and helped craft the Founding Manifesto which gave great emphasis to the revolutionary potential beyond the Madiba compromise. Just before joining, in July 2013, the author writing in the Mail and Guardian offered these insights: “Our nation is crying out for leadership, a new morality and vision. I have seen the announcement of the incomplete, even reluctant, unification of the Azanian People’s Organisation and the Socialist Party of Azania, and the emergence of Agang SA. I’m not moved by these two developments – in fact, I’m underwhelmed. I don’t see anything new and exciting in them. Some say that after 20 years of democracy we are now at a crossroads. We need something new, bold, youthful, radical, brave and inspiring. We are in the interregnum. This is a big and difficult word; please reach for your dictionaries. In this interregnum, the old is dying – but not yet dead – and the new is being born but has not yet fully emerged. By all indications, the ANC is dying but not dead yet. The DA is stillborn and part of the same problem, so it doesn’t count. The big question is: Can the new be born free of the poison of both the DA and the ANC? At this stage Julius Malema’s Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) presents the most exciting development. It’s not irrelevant that 26% of the South African youth are said to be in favour of Juju. But we must ask: Are they going to build an ANC outside the ANC? In other words, will they “do a Cope” on the nation? Or will they abandon the bad culture of the ANC and help to engender a new spirit of service? An exciting possibility now exists that a new politics based on public service, a radically redistributive economic policy and substantive democracy, may be on the cards. The September National Imbizo, a black consciousness, pan-African movement to which I belong, has decided to engage with the EFF on the basis of agreement on a programme, the “People’s Manifesto” (see below). The manifesto demands that politicians and public servants be compelled by law to use public ­services. Should the EFF adopt this programme, a new politics may arise that would end all privileges for ­politicians, pegging their salaries at reasonable levels. Thomas Sankara would smile from his unmarked grave in Burkina Faso at this suggestion, for it was he who, in Africa, lived and died for a political class that would serve the people. Can we march to that new dawn?” In the meeting between the EFF and the SNI, we presented the People’s Manifesto and the Thomas Sankara Oath as the conditions to join the EFF. Malema, Floyd Shivambu and Mbuyiseni Ndlozi were present and agreed to the Thomas Sankara Oath. In fact the Thomas Sankara Oath found its way into the Founding Manifesto of the EFF. SNI leaders were clear that the Oath was to be fought for. Our hope was that the young people inside the EFF would embrace it and make it difficult for the leaders to abandon the path of Fanon and Sankara for the path of Louis Vuitton. We needed to suffocate the bad ANC culture for the new ethics of Sankara. For a while we succeeded. The revolutionary side of the Janus-faced birth had seemEd to have won. The point being made here is that it was possible in the beginning to push the EFF towards a revolutionary politics and to imbue the form given by the seven cardinal pillars with revolutionary content. But to say that, is not to deny the possibilities of reversals. Under the Sankarist rhetoric and the proletarian ethic signified by the workers, lurked the addiction to the good life. A relapse was not too far. To prepare for the relapse, the Thomas Sankara Oath had miraculously disappeared from the Founding Manifesto just after the first elective conference and the purging of the SNI contingent. Also the amendment of the land cardinal pillar had been effected to make way for such reformist talk as “unused land”. This was the beginning of the right wing shift and ideological flip flopping that followed in the next five years or so. It now appears that Malema has completely forgotten that the founding document of his party had in fact once contained the Thomas Sankara Oath. He defended his addiction to the life of Louis Vuitton and Gucci and Sandton houses, just days before the second elective conference. To this end when the mainstream media raised issues with his lifestyle, he pleaded that he had never committed himself to Thomas Sankara. It’s a lie. He should have said that he has abandoned Sankara. Interestingly enough, he put it on the poor. He basically said that the poor are happy that he lives like that, hence they voted for him. He suggested that the vote of the poor, despite his Louis Vuitton lifestyle, was a validation of its ideological correctness. This was classical Juju evasion. And the media being unschooled in how it’s unethical to uphold Marxism and Leninism on the one hand and live off the surplus labour of the working class on the other hand, didn’t ask the right questions when Malema told it: “I have never said, ‘I stay in Alexandra, vote for me.’ I have never said, ‘Vote for me because, like Thomas Sankara, I am riding a bike.’ They voted for me knowing that I stay in Sandton.” How did we arrive at the point where Malema, the leader of a Marxist Leninist Fanonian radical movement that had at its beginning embraced Fanon and Sankara so openly, repudiates Thomas Sankara? How did this right wing shift happen? It will be argued that part of the right wing slide was the addicts relapse. Part two shall go into the ideological flip flopping from February 2016 with the meeting at Paarl with the white farmers, to the London meeting, to the big right wing turn of giving political power to the racist DA, to the purging of black leaders in the state owned enterprises (SOEs), to the endemic corruption, and to the suppression of internal decent. These are issues which the EFF leadership is avoiding like the plaque and they help to expose to even for the most dim witted that there is a big disjuncture between what this party of Marxism Leninism projects itself to be and what it is in fact. The assessment will look at what is the actual practice not what the rhetoric says. It will also explain why some very obvious contradictions have been allowed to twirl by the bourgeois press. Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF), a radical black consciousness organization. No related posts.