Photo credit: Business Insider US By BO Staff Writer On Wednesday, President Donald Trump was impeached by the United States (U.S.) House of Representatives thorough a process that commenced on September 24. The voting was divided along party lines in the house. In this regard 230 out of a total of 233 Democrats opposed the impeachment while 197 Republicans supported the impeachment in terms of the first article of impeachment. This pattern of division could also be gleaned in the results regarding the second article of impeachment which obtained 230 approvals and 198 rejections for the impeachment. This in no way means that the U.S. President has been instantly removed from office. In fact the impeachment amounts to formal charges being laid against President Trump for obstructing Congress; and a whistleblower‘s allegations of abuse of power in that he had pressured Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy to investigate Biden, his political rival, in violation of Federal election legislation which prevents candidates from accepting foreign assistance in an election. A trial, under the control of the Republicans, is expected to start in January 2020. A two-thirds majority vote in the Senate is required for a conviction. Black First Land First (BLF) President, Andile Mngxitama, put it like this on social media: “NB! Donald Trump is still the U.S. President. The impeachment motion was passed by a house dominated by Democrats. But Senate, which will run the trial, is dominated by Republicans and shall acquit Trump. So any notion that impeachment means Trump is no longer President is wrong. These impeachment proceedings are going to ensure he gets a second term. It’s stupid in fact. Did you see they aren’t impeaching him for anything serious like war or grand corruption. Anyway, for me Trump is the U.S. President. The sin is not Trump, but that office”. It must be stated that there is no precedent in U.S. history for a President being removed through the impeachment process as provided for constitutionally. There is further no indication from the Republican senators of setting a precedent in this regard. As a clear indication that senators are not expected to remove Trump from office, Mitch McConnell (the Republican Senate leader) ignored a request from the Democrats on Tuesday to call important witnesses for the trial in January, McConnell has reportedly already clarified that Trump will not be removed from office. No related posts.