Photo credit: Picture: EFF/Twitter 2019 closes with the African National Congress (ANC) and the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) betraying the landless people of South Africa (SA). The publication of the “Draft Constitution Eighteenth Amendment Bill, 2019” proves beyond any doubt that Black First Land First (BLF) has been correct all along in saying that there shall be no land expropriation without compensation amendments. This Bill provides proves what BLF has been saying. It is a betrayal of the landless people of our country, by people they have put their faith in. Cyril Ramaphosa and Julius Malema work as a team to protect the property interests of white monopoly capital (WMC) whilst presenting themselves as serving the interests of our people. The Bill is a product of a parliamentary committee in which the EFF is represented. It presents the bankrupt dishonest proposition loved by Advocate Tembeka Ngcukaitobi, who is a known opponent of land expropriation without compensation. The amendments are essentially in two parts. The first part provides for the introduction of the notion of “nil compensation” as an option to be considered, in the event that there is an agreement between parties or if such zero compensation is determined by the courts. The second part makes provision for a law to be enacted to determine under what circumstances the “nil compensation” would apply. The memorandum attached to the Bill makes it clear that this “nil compensation” is but one of the options to be considered. The idea that the landless and land thieves can agree on no compensation is silly and an insult to black people. If this idea of land donation by land thieves was viable, there would be no need for a land redistribution policy. This nonsensical idea suggests that there are land thieves out there waiting to give back land for nil compensation. Moreover, in the event that the matter is decided by the court, then “just and equitable compensation” must apply – and it’s already determined by our courts that the first consideration is that of market value. The anticipated circumstances when this “nil compensation” will apply as per legislation to be promulgated, suggests that there will be other circumstances where market value will be paid. A good guide as to what the circumstances for the so called “nil compensation” are likely to be, is to be found in the Expropriation Bill published in December 2018. They are referring to abandoned buildings and reject land which Malema has called “unused” or “unproductive” land. This is a joke! To rub it in, the EFF has called the published Bill a victory. This is an insult to all those who have paid with their lives for the return of the land. The tragic and sad thing is to see the EFF and ANC collaborate to betray our people again. BLF is directly accusing the EFF of aiding Cyril Ramaphosa to serve the interests of Stellenbosch. We are open to a public debate on this issue anytime with Julius Malema. BLF shall be making written comment on the draft Bill to expose the fraud and betrayal. We shall also give notice of our intention to make oral submissions in this regard. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 This statement was issued by BLF on 31 December 2019 No related posts.