Photo credit: ESI Africa By BO Staff Writer In an interview on Wednesday with Sunday Independent Former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe said that Eskom must deal with its systemic problems, enhance the energy availability of its power plants, regularly maintain them and end the persecution campaigns and distraction tactics. Molefe also advised the Ramaphosa government to end the incorporation of renewable energy independent power producers (IPPs) in the national grid. To this end he called on Ramaphosa, Pravin Gordhan (Minister of Public Enterprises), and the Eskom board to end their obsession with IPPs which he said “are not there when you need them during load shedding”. He indicated that the problem with IPPs is their lack of capacity to store the energy that was created. “They generate electricity but it cannot be stored. Until the technology to store the electricity has been found in the way that you can store cost-effectively and effectively store the energy so that when you need it, when you load shed at 3am as we have been experiencing now, you can switch on the battery and use solar energy in the middle of the night. That is not available. At the moment solar is not available just after sunset. Wind is available when the wind is blowing”, Molefe said sharply. In the past week Eskom implemented Stage 6 load-shedding citing wet coal as the cause of the problem. In the meantime Ramaphosa concluded that the problem was caused by the Tutuka power station in Mpumalanga being sabotaged. He indicated he had instructed an investigation into the sabotage and that those conducting the process work with intelligence and the police to ascertain how the disconnection of the relevant instrument took place that resulted in 2000 megawatts being lost. The National Union of Mineworkers (NUM), in denouncing the sabotage claim of Ramaphosa, pointed out that Tutuka’s boilers each generated 600MW of electricity and not the 2000MW of lost capacity claimed by Ramaphosa. The real reason for load shedding, NUM said, is to allow for more IPPs. Black First Land First (BLF) President, Andile Mngxitama, also commented on the load-shedding issue: “This is a self made crisis to speed up the process of privatizing Eskom. It’s a ploy to punish our people into submission so as to justify selling off Eskom to Cyril Ramaphosa’s funders. Eskom, like the South African Airways (SAA), will be given to those who bought the Presidency of the African National Congress (ANC), via the Nasrec conference, with R1 billion”, he said Molefe rejected the claims of sabotage by Ramaphosa. He said he was surprised by the stage 6 load-shedding because during his tenure as Eskom’s CEO a capacity of approximately 46 000MW was installed at the 16 power plants of Eskom. “Demand on a typical day is about 26000MW, and Eskom reported that they had about 12500MW out on unplanned maintenance, which means breakdowns. That’s very big, where we expect unplanned outages to be limited to about 4000 and to have a portion of the fleet out on planned maintenance,” Molefe said. He explained that the crises can be resolved by increasing the energy availability factor (EAF) which is currently at about about 65 percent to 85 percent. “However, EAF is a function of operations. You know people complain that our power stations are very old and they break down”, Molefe pointed out. “It would appear that renewables have been prioritised over everything else, even EAF and maintenance. They are very expensive. The cheapest form of energy is nuclear and we are not even prioritising it,” he said. Molefe made it clear that if requested to do so, he would consider helping Eskom to resolve the crisis as the current situation is similar to what it was in 2015, when he joined Eskom. “The answer to load-shedding is the combined leadership of Eskom’s former chairman Dr Ben Ngubane, former acting CEO Matshela Koko and former CEO Brian Molefe. This trio had ended load-shedding and further ensured that Eskom realized a profit”, Mngxitama said welcoming Molefe’s offer to help resolve the crisis. “The Ramaphosa administration must stop playing evil games! Bring back the super team of Dr Ngubane, Koko and Molefe to end load-shedding”, he urged. No related posts.