Image credit: Anticonquista By BO Staff Writer On Saturday Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro announced during a mass mobilization program in La Guaira that a militia of over 3 million has been sworn in. “Today, following the imprescriptible legacy of our Commander Chavez, we have a @MiliciaFANB made into millions; 3,300,000 militiamen have been sworn in and incorporated into the integral defense of the nation”, President Maduro tweeted today. “Today … we accomplish the goal, reaching 3 million 300 militiamen organized, trained, armed and willing to defend the independence and Peace of the Homeland’, he explained further. The militias, raised from the civilian population to supplement the Venezuelan Defence Force, are part of the great Bolivarian Militia which now defend 163,967 streets in the working class barrios (districts) throughout the country. “The best way to demonstrate absolute loyalty and deep love to our Commander Chavez is with the consolidation of a powerful, well-prepared and loyal Bolivarian Militia. More than #3MillonesDeMilicianos ready for the Integral Defense of the Homeland”, Maduro expounded. The militias protect the Venezuelan people from U.S. imperialist sponsored violence. They further facilitate the proper distribution of state funded food and medical supplies to the public. This is how the districts have been organized in defence of the revolution across the country. “How many things have happened in 7 years, and where are we after 7 years? Standing up! Victorious, with our faces facing the future! Proud of our loyalty, commitment and our struggle”, Maduro said in reflecting on the achievements of the revolution. Maduro also applauded those who joined the Bolivarian Militia for their loyalty. “I congratulate all the people who signed up and prepared to be an active part of our great Bolivarian Militia. People in Arms who swore to be loyal to the legacy of our liberators, to Bolívar, to Chávez and to the Constitution”, he said Maduro further congratulated “the Commander of the Militia and the General Commanders of the Components of the FANB for the great achievement of surpassing the 3 million militia officers”. No related posts.