Image credit: SowetanLIVE By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website: Black First Land First (BLF) naturally welcomes the grudging call by the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) for the return of the Eskom super trio. In a statement issued on Tuesday the EFF has called for the only real leadership of Eskom, removed ironically with the assistance of the same EFF, to return to fix the mess created by Pravin Gordhan. This is the only correct thing that must happen to end load-shedding. BLF calls on the EFF leadership to stop its opportunism for the life of Louis Vuitton, Range Rovers and houses in Sandton. The addiction of the EFF leadership to the good life has turned them into tools of white monopoly capital (WMC). When President Zuma correctly fired Pravin Gordhan, the EFF was in the forefront defending Gordhan and attacking Zuma. What has now changed? The EFF even gave the neoliberal budget speech of Gordhan a standing ovation despite the fact that it had already suggested the privatization of State Owned Enterprises (SOEs). Their addiction to the good life has made these EFF leaders involve themselves in multiple corrupt activities, including the looting of VBS. BLF calls on the EFF to repent and apologize to the leadership of Eskom that it is now asking to save the nation. In particular, we call on the EFF to apologize to Brian Molefe which it hounded to satisfy WMC. It is difficult to take the EFF seriously given its track record of working with the enemy. We have seen how it collaborates with the enemy. And when the enemy abandons it, we have seen how it rushes back to the ranks of the people opportunistically. A clean break with Stellenbosch and London, as well as a confession of theft of the money of the poor, are necessary conditions for the return to the peoples ranks by the EFF. BLF has consistently, as a matter of principle, called for the return of the Eskom super trio. They had stopped load-shedding and even turned Eskom into a profit making entity. We welcome the late realization by the EFF of the greatness of these three people, even if it is for opportunistic reasons. The trio deserves an apology from the EFF and we hope it will be tendered soon enough. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 10 December 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.