By BO Staff Writer Yesterday Black First Land First (BLF), led by its President Andile Mngxitama, opened a criminal case at the Hillbrow Police Station of crimen injuria against the former COO of Bosasa, Angelo Agrizzi, in that he had used the “K” word at numerous instances in relation to two black executives of Bosasa, namely Joe Gumede and Papa Leshabane. In a sworn affidavit submitted to the Hillbrow Police Station, BLF argued that by using the said racist language Agrizzi had impaired the dignity of all blacks including Gumede and Leshabane. The racist remarks which were recorded occurred on 24 August last year at a meeting in Agrizzi’s Helderfontein Estates house. The recording was played and put to Agrizzi during his testimony before the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture (Zondo Commission). Agrizzi’s evidence to the commission related to the allegedly corrupt relationships between Bosasa and certain influential people including journalists and politicians. Agrizzi said that the meeting was in response to him wanting to expose Bosasa’s wrongdoings. BLF points out that Agrizzi admitted he is a racist to Judge Zondo; the fact that Agrizzi had knowledge that he was being recorded but still made racist remarks is shocking and aggravating; and this conduct of Agrizzi suggests that he was undeterred by the consequences that may result from such criminal behavior. On Twitter yesterday, BLF President said: #Agrizzi through his confessed racism has soiled all the evidence he gave judge Zondo. How can a racist not be biased and prejudiced against blacks? #BLFchargesAgrizzi Evidently Agrizzi’s racist language constitutes strong evidence that he was entirely motivated by racist intentions. In a subsequent tweet Mngxitama indicated: A racist who confesses to racism is as bad as a racist who is in denial. #BLFchargesAgrizzi the racist #Agenda2030 must account. Today @BLF_SouthAfrica opening a case of racism against #Agrizzi BLF calls for prompt action, including the prosecution of Agrizzi for crimen injuria. Furthermore the movement has called on the court to, upon his conviction, sentence Agrizzi to ‘direct imprisonment of 10 years without an option of a fine’; ‘forfeiture of all his assets for the benefit of institutions working with the poor’; and ‘subjection to anti-racism education’. BLF will in the coming week institute action in the Equality Court against Agrizzi for his racist remarks, Mngxitama said. No related posts.