By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: “I have a phrase for this: the racial allocation of guilt.” – Fanon In early January Shepherd Bushiri was falsely accused of being responsible for a stampede at his church that left 3 dead and 17 others injured in that he had not complied with certain safety regulations. When violent protests broke out by some blacks against him Black First Land First (BLF) cautioned against opportunists who were using them for nefarious agendas. The CRL Commission has this past Friday absolved Bushiri of any guilt regarding the incident at his church. BLF welcomes this decision. We are vindicated by it. BLF notes that the Hawks have since arrested Shepherd Bushiri and his wife Mary on allegations of fraud, money laundering and the contravention of the Prevention of Organised Crime Act (POCA). We note further that the current arrests and previous accusations are made in the context of a white monopoly capital (WMC) sponsored campaign by African governments to shut down certain black churches with massive followings that are problematic to the ruling class. At the same time the sins of the clergy including sexual offences, fraud, corruption and money laundering in white churches go unpunished. BLF has opened multiple cases with the SAPS which are high profile against white offenders involving similar allegations to that of Bushiri – of fraud, corruption and money laundering. None of the perpetrators have been arrested and or interrogated by the HAWKS. BLF believes that that this is because the prevailing white power structure allows whites to act criminally with impunity. Blacks on the other hand are guilty without any proven prior transgression. We ask why have the following perpetrators not been arrested and questioned by the HAWKS? 1. Johan Rupert & 16 others charged for theft of R26 billion from the South African Reserve Bank (SARB)
2. ABSA and 17 other banks charged for corruption, theft, fraud, money laundering etc
3. Markus Jooste, the former Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Steinhoff International charged for fraud, corruption, money laundering, etc
4. Adriano Mazzotti charged for money laundering, fraud, corruption, etc
5. Nicky and Johnathan Oppenheimer charged for fraud, bribery and corruption, etc Moreover WMC has stolen over R510 billion between 2010 and 2014 through tax evasion and money laundering. Why have these perpetrators not been arrested and interrogated by the HAWKS? BLF calls for real justice to take its course. Treat all suspected offenders equally, not racially! Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee (BLF NCC)
3 February 2019 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Head of Media & Communications)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664 No related posts.