By BO Staff Writer Today the radical black consciousness movement, Black First Land First (BLF), sent a letter to President Ramaphosa demanding that he institutes a Judicial Commission of Inquiry (JCOI) into allegations of him being an apartheid collaborator and EFF being linked to the MI6. The following letter to the President, which was previously published on the BLF website, is now reissued by Black Opinion: “The Presidency
President Cyril Ramaphosa
Union Buildings
Government Avenue
Pretoria
17 February 2019 Email: presidentrsa@presidency.gov.za Dear President Ramaphosa WE DEMAND A JUDICIAL COMMISSION OF INQUIRY INTO ALLEGATIONS OF PRESIDENT RAMAPHOSA BEING AN APARTHEID SPY AND SELLING OUT AS WELL AS EFF BEING LINKED TO M16 1. On 13 February 2019 and in the State of the Nation (SONA) debate, Mosiuoa Lekota the leader of the Congress of the People (COPE) recalled in parliament how he was imprisoned during the 1970s for his involvement in the liberation struggle. 2. He further indicated the following: a. You wrote a letter / signed statement to the Special Branch in which you said that he (Mosiuoa) and his comrades had put “communist ideas” in your head. You were subsequently rewarded by the Special Branch for this. b. It was because of the letter / signed statement that you had written to the Special Branch that you were released from detention while the others including him (Mosiuoa) had to stand trial. c. That is the choice that you had made. You had effectively thrown them all under the bus in 1974. d. He had decided to stand with the people. He told you that he is “grateful you’re a billionaire” and that you must keep your “billions.” 3. In your subsequent response you did not deny or confirm whether you had written the letter / signed statement to the Special Branch. You also did not confirm or deny whether you had effectively thrown your comrades under the bus. This amounts to undisputed evidence before parliament. In the absence of you challenging the allegations put to you, it can reasonably be inferred as an admission of the said allegations. 4. You indicated to parliament that the Special Branch asked you to turn state witness and give evidence against Mosiuoa. The question correctly raised in this context is, what did you confess to the Special Branch that convinced them that you would make a good state witness? Evidently they wanted you to tell the court that Mosiuoa put “communist ideas” in your head. In this regard it is common cause that everyone who was opposed to the apartheid regime was called a communist. Rumours implicating EFF as agents of the MI6 5. You pointed out to the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) of Julius Malema that there are rumours implicating them as agents of the MI6. Moreover you indicated that the rumors were linked to Julius Malema’s trip to London in 2015. It is now of public record that the EFF had met the British establishment on this occasion in question. 6. To this end Lord Robin Renwick, the Queen of England’s representative, has confirmed in his book that he met the EFF at the request of the group. This suggests that the party may have already been handled by the British intelligence agency. Otherwise, why would an organization that claims to be socialist want to see the representative of the Queen? 7. EFF returned from London a changed organization. It no longer focused its attention on fighting white monopoly capital (WMC). Instead, it turned on the enemies of WMC and started the Zuma and Gupta must go campaigns. It also abandoned its threats to occupy ABSA. Instead it marched with the racist Democratic Alliance (DA) and pro right wing formations against Zuma in defence of Pravin Gordhan. 8. The rumours of EFF being handled by the United Kingdom (UK) were intensified when the party gave political power to the white supremacist DA in the strategic Metropolitan cities like Johannesburg and Tshwane. The EFF is unable to explain these bizarre moves. Add to this the fact that after its return from London, the EFF denounced both Nelson Mandela and Robert Mugabe, and the claims of it being captured by M16 become plausible. 9. The EFF has not released the footage of its meeting with the British establishment and colonialists at Chatham House despite promising to do so. Ramaphosa has fired the warning shot and the Reds have scattered into silence. Questions won’t stop until the EFF explains why it sought a meeting with the representative of the Queen, Lord Robin Renwick, and why it gave political power to the racist Helen Zille. BLF demands a Judicial Commission of Inquiry 10. Black First Land First (BLF) calls for a Judicial Commission of Inquiry to be set up into all the issues raised herein. To this end we ask that the terms of reference include the following areas of inquiry: a. Mosiuoa Lekota’s allegations of you being an apartheid spy and selling out your comrades including Lekota. b. EFF’s links to the MI6 and the British throne and to this end why it sought a meeting with Lord Robin Renwick, the Queen’s representative. 11. As serious allegations are made against you in this matter, you are accordingly conflicted and not be in a position to act impartiality in the institution of a Judicial Commission of Inquiry. 12. In the circumstances BLF demands that the Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng makes all the relevant appointments including the Judge who must head the said Judicial Commission of Inquiry.
Sincerely Andile Mngxitama
Black First Land First (BLF): President Contact details Black First Land First Email: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za President
Andile Mngxitama
Cell number: +27 82 678 3200 Secretary General
Siphesihle Ayanda Jele
Cell number: +27 72 841 7579” Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC) 18 February 2019 Contact details Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Deputy President: Zanele Lwana
Cell: +27799867225 National Spokesperson: Lindsay Maasdorp
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Head of Media & Communications: Brian Tloubatla
Cell: +27 82 216 7664 No related posts.