By BO Staff Writer The following statement was issued today by Vukani Community Development and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Vukani Community Development (Vukani) calls on all black people, organizations and political parties to support Black First Land First (BLF) in its High Court application to appeal the decision of the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) to ban it as a political party. Vukani’s call is for principled black unity to advance the fight to end suffering. In this fight the BLF is an important organization that represents black interests. The enemy remains united behind Freedom Front Plus (FF+) to ban BLF. This situation presents a new opportunity to forge black unity. Responding to this call will show that BLF is not alone as it faces the likes of FF+, AfrForum and the rest of the white supremacist interests. The IEC has criminalized blackness by banning BLF at the instance of the racist FF+ who, like all other white interests, is terrified of BLF entering parliament. To defeat the enemy we need to be united. The enemy has thus far cultivated our differences and used it to divide us. This is the time to rally behind BLF. The illegal IEC decision against BLF suggests that it is an agent of White Monopoly Capital (WMC) effectively assisting the likes of FF+ to maintain white capture of the land and economy via parliament. If it does not self correct, it will isolate itself from the interests of black people. Vukani’s call for principled unity in protection of BLF, does not require one to be a member of BLF, vote for it, or even agree with everything it says or does. It simply means that your voice and efforts are needed to say #NoToRacism, #HandsOffBLF. Its Mandela Day. Its an historic moment to start showing our solidarity with BLF against FF+ that represents white interests. Vukani! Take a stand today! Issued by the Board of Vukani Community Development 18 July 2019 For media enquiries contact: Mayibuye Melisizwe Mandela
Chairperson
Cell: +27 79 771 9913 Zanele Lwana
Additional member
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 Vukani Mail: vukanidevelopment@gmail.com No related posts.