By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Freedom Front Plus (FF+) has since March this year brought several cases against Black First Land First (BLF) to the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) and the Electoral Court in a bid to get it deregistered as a political party and prevent it from contesting elections. The FF+ first took the matter on review to the Electoral Court to overturn the decision of the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) to register BLF as a political party due to its membership policy being blacks only. It then brought the matter on appeal to the IEC. On the third occasion it launched an appeal at the Electoral Court. It failed on each of the above occasions. Yesterday the IEC upheld the subsequent appeal instituted by the FF+ and set aside the registration of BLF as a political party. This amounts to BLF being banned for being blacks only. The FF+ has its genesis in the National Party; is against transformation; wants a Boerestad; and is against Affirmative Action, Employment Equity, and land restitution. How can a whites-only organization of apartheid claim to be champions of anti-racism? We are currently studying the judgement of the IEC and shall announce shortly our decision in this respect.. There are two options for us. We can exhaust all the available legal remedies. This will include taking the decision of the IEC on appeal to the Electoral Court and thereafter go to the Constitutional Court if needs be. Alternatively we can go underground. FF+ is terrified of BLF. They know that BLF cannot be bribed. They know that only through BLF can black people get their land back. Only BLF can unite black people into a force to destroy white monopoly capital. Hence it wants to shut it down. It will not succeed. BLF leadership shall take all steps necessary to ensure that our movement participates in the 2021 Local Government Elections. You can’t ban the revolution! Victory is certain! Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC)
16 July 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.