By BO Staff Writer From conversations during prison visits with a comrade who conducted political education with fellow incarcerated persons at the Pretoria Central Maximum Security Prison (women’s section) from 19 – 24 July 2016. This curriculum was previously issued by Black First Land First and is now republished by Black Opinion: Theme 1: Colonialism and the division of Africa 1. Indicate the significance of the Berlin Conference and the scramble to gain control of Africa by the imperialist powers so as to divide and share it amongst themselves. 2. Show how World War 1 (WW1) settled the issue between the imperialist countries as to how Africa should be shared among themselves. 3. Explain how WW2 was about the further scramble for Africa Theme 2: Freedom and the independence deception 1. Indicate why South Africa is the most consistently unequal society in the world, 2. Show how the formal ending of apartheid in SA in 1994 and the gaining of Independence by the rest of the countries in Africa only extended the white supremacist system under new management by the black colonialists in power who serve as front office managers for white supremacy. 3. Indicate that a truly democratic system would respond to the total needs of the people. 3. Expose the lie that the post 1994 settlement in SA and the post Independence arrangements in the rest of Africa gave democracy. Indicate how the formal ending of apartheid and the establishment of independence in the rest of Africa signaled the further consolidation of white supremacy. 4. Interrogate the root cause of service delivery related protests in SA. Point out how all the ills that we find in black life – namely: poverty; unemployment; lack of proper housing; homelessness; violence including domestic, gender based and other gendered violence; bad health care; bad educational system, etcetera – can be located in the anti blackness of white supremacy and are the same conditions that we inherited from the pre 1994 and pre Independence political orders. 5. Clarify that it was never the strategic objective of this post 1994 ANC led system and the post Independence systems throughout Africa to destroy the system of white supremacy and replace it with a system that is responsive to people’s needs. 6. In the above context Interrogate the role of opposition political parties (like the DA and EFF etc in SA) who only berate the ruling party when it deviates from its plan of protecting white capitalists. 6. At the end of this exercise it must be clear that a. 1994 in SA and post Independence elsewhere in Africa generally delivered nothing to blacks b. SA and the rest of Africa in general did not gain Independence and its people never gained freedom with the formal ending of apartheid /colonialism Theme 3: Lord Robin Renwick 1. Indicate that Robin Renwick is the key regime change plotter for imperialism in service of the London Agenda. 2. Explain what the London pro-imperialist Agenda is and who are its allies 3. Explain the BRICS agenda and who its allies are. 4. Expose the role of Robin Renwick in trying to effect an illegal regime change in Zimbabwe after President Mugabe’s government took the land from white settlers and gave it to black Zimbabweans. 5. Inform the people of the meeting in 2015 that EFF’s Julius Malema had with with Robin Renwick and other representatives of imperialism under the secret rule called the “Chatham House Rule”. 6. Expose the role of Julius Malema (after the above meeting with Renwick and others) in attacking Mugabe as part of carrying out the London agenda to get rid of Mugabe. 7. Expose the role of Robin Renwick in effecting regime change in SA (via the agency of Nelson Mandela) and now via the London agenda. Also expose his role in effecting regime change in Zimbabwe and Namibia. Theme 4: The Freedom Charter 1. Speak of the EFF’s support of the Freedom Charter and how this has come to mean one thing only: supporting the ANC’s anti black agenda.
2. Expose the pseudo freedoms promised in the Freedom Charter.
3. Indicate that the Freedom Charter is fundamentally a non racialist document that proclaims that SA belongs to all who live in it black and white, and to this end declares harmony between the conquered blacks and whites as conquerors in a pre revolutionary anti black country. Explain that the Freedom Charter surrenders the birth rights to land of blacks and further provides for the consolidation of whiteness by the clause “land shall be shared amongst those who work it”.
4. Point out that the principles in the FC that “SA belongs to all who live in it black and white” and “the land shall be shared amongst those who work it” are inconsistent with the principle of putting blacks first for repossession of land without payment to those who stole it.
5. Indicate that land was stolen from blacks and that the FC fails to make this point and this is the beginning of the understanding of the Freedom Charter as an anti black document.
6. At the end of this exercise it must be clear that the Freedom Charter is an anti black documented program of action that ultimately serves to maintain white monopoly capital via the agency of black comprador elements who serve as front office managers of that system!. Theme 5: The SA Constitution 1. Explain what Section 25 of the Constitution, which is the property clause, actually says.
2. Show how it protects colonial property relations by providing for expropriation of land with compensation that is “just and equitable” to the colonial land thieves.
3. Indicate how the courts both in the country and internationally have already settled the fact that “just and equitable” compensation amounts to compensation that is market related in line with globalization which is dictated by the logic of the market.
4. Point out that the Expropriation Bill does not in any way change the content of Section 25 of the Constitution in any meaningful way.
5. By the end of this exercise it should be clear that the SA Constitution is anti black as it traps land repossession within the logic of the market instead of taking it out of that logic and expressing it in historic terms. Theme 6: Steve Biko and Black Consciousness 1. Explain who Steve Biko was and what his teachings have come to mean for black liberation. 2. Explain that black consciousness essentially calls for a total overhaul of the anti black system, and replacing it with a system that is responsive to the total needs of blacks. It is also the realization that freedom can only be attained by ending the black condition and the concepts by which such a condition is structured 3. Read out and interrogate Biko’s definition of who are the black people. To this end point out that Blacks are those people who are by law and tradition politically, economically and socially discriminated against as a group and who see themselves as a unit in the struggle for liberation from white supremacy – that in terms of this definition the black people in South Africa are those that come from the African communities, the so-called Coloured communities and so-called Indian communities 4. Discuss the animosities within and between the above oppressed communities. In this regard indicate that such animosities are rooted mainly in apartheids grand design of divide and rule. Point out why some of these oppressed people do not want to identify themselves as black because of tribalistic tendencies. 5. Explain what is racism. Use landlessness, disparities in wages between whites and blacks, poverty etc as examples in point. 6. Indicate why blacks can’t be racist. 7. Show the difference between racism and prejudice or racialistic tendencies. 8. Explain who are the non whites. Theme 7: Capitalism Explain that this form of economic order is characterized by: 1. the private ownership of the means of production 2. the freedom of private owners to use, buy and sell their property or services on the open market at prices, terms and conditions that are voluntarily agreed upon with very little interference with such transactions by the State. 3. the state promotes privatization and once the private sector is developed at the expense of the workers for instance, the government says it cannot intervene to protect the people. Theme 8: The structure of capitalism 1. Explain how capitalism is inherently racist 2. Explain the layering of this system with the Racist Capitalist Class being the White Minority and owners of the means of production occupying the top layer; the ANC – led government (as agent and front office manager of racial capitalism) occupying the middle layer, and the lower layer being occupied by the Black Majority (as the politically oppressed, economically exploited and socially discriminated against). To this end indicate that the majority of this group have no means or source of income. It also comprises of the work force which actually produces all the wealth of the country Theme 9: Imperialism Explain the following features of imperialism: 1) the development of production and capital to such a high level that it produces capitalist monopolies; 2) the merging of bank with industrial capital thus creating ‘finance capital,’ and a financial oligarchy; 3) the export of capital is paramount; 4) international capitalist monopolies (or trusts) come together to divide and share the world between themselves, and 5) the world is divided among the main capitalist powers by either direct control or by state capture via front office managers who serve in the interests of capitalist imperialism. Theme 10: Oppression of black women 1. Show via the concrete example of employment how black women earn far lower wages than both white men and white women put together and relatively lower wages than black men. 2. Explain the cross cutting effect of imperialism, capitalism, neo colonialism and neo liberalism on the oppression of women. 3. Explain what it would take for black women to be free. Theme 11: On who to vote for 1. Promote an appreciation of which political party one should vote for. To this end indicate why it is not in the interests of the people to vote for any political party that: a. Upholds the Constitution and or the Freedom Charter – both these documents are anti black b. Does not intend to take back the land without payment to the colonial land thieves and to take back the economy. c. Asks the prospective voter to vote for them before they take back the land and the economy d. Disregards colonial land theft before and even after the 1913 Land Act 2. Explain that when a party does any of the above its aspirations are limited to building the colonial national bourgeoisie against the interests of the people and in service of white supremacy. These are aspirant black colonialists who are destined to becoming corrupted by power. No related posts.