By BO Staff Writer “A newspaper is not only a collective propagandist and a collective agitator, it is also a collective organiser” – V.I Lenin By BO Staff Writer Black Opinion (BO) humbly walks in the footsteps of its revolutionary forebears. It was established on 10 April 2016 – at a time when the imperialist onslaught for regime change compelled a defense of the sovereignty of the country. BO has since published 1297 articles. Its first article “It’s A Coup And You Don’t Know It!” was written by the editorial board. It is also noteworthy that in just over a month from 25 August 2019 to 28 September 2019, BO has published 115 articles. Marx and New York Tribune Karl Marx befriended, Charles A. Dana, the managing editor of the New York Tribune, who in 1852 hired him as the paper’s British correspondent. By 1862 (that is in ten years) Marx wrote approximately 500 pieces for the New York Tribune which were published on the newspaper’s front page as its official position. Many of these articles were not signed by Marx, and John Nichols, in “The ‘S’ Word: A Short History of an American Tradition … Socialism”, tells us that Marx subsequently used his unsigned published material in the New York Tribune for his book “Capital”. The ideas of Marx in his articles and his other contributions, have since positively influenced many revolutions including, the Paris Commune, the Great October Revolution of 1917, the Chinese Revolution, the Burkinabe Revolution and the revolutions that swept Latin America. Lenin and Iskra Iskra (Spark) was the official newspaper of the Social Democratic Labour Party (SDLP) which in turn was formed at a meeting of a number of Marxist groups in Minsk, in 1898. The SDLP was banned in Russia. It published the first Iskra newspaper in December 1900. More specifically, Iskra was an underground revolutionary newspaper. It was the first of its kind to be distributed in Russia after it was smuggled into the country by SDLP agents. It is instructive that of the articles published in Iskra’s first forty-five issues: thirty-nine were written by Martov; thirty-two were written by Lenin; twenty-four were written by Plekhanov; eight were written by Potresov; six were written by Zasulich; four were written by Axelrod; two were written by Trotsky; and a few articles were written by Rosa Luxemburg and Alexander Parvus. Lenin eventually resigned from the editorial board of Iskra and set up the Bolshevik newspaper, Vperyod (Russian for Forward). “All the Bolsheviks are rejoicing… At last we have broken up the cursed dissension and are working harmoniously with those who want to work and not to create scandals! A good group of contributors has been got together; there are fresh forces… The Central Committee which betrayed us has lost all credit… The Bolshevik Committees are joining together; they have already chose(n) a Bureau and now the organ will completely unite them…. Do not lose heart. We are all reviving now and will continue to revive… Above all be cheerful. Remember, you and I are not so old yet… everything is still before us”, Lenin wrote in a letter to Essen Knuniyants. It is important to note that the central ideas and message of Iskra during Lenin’s sitting on its board, ultimately constituted the lifeblood of the political and ideological perspectives of the Bolshevik Party. The legacy of the Great October Russian revolution, led by the Bolsheviks, offers many lessons that continue to shape the revolutions going forward. BO’s message and intent The message of BO indicates a revolutionary outlook in furtherance of the truth towards meaningfully changing society. Yes, think of it like you think of Marx’s New York Tribune and Lenin’s Iskra. It is indeed a revolutionary newspaper and ultimately a collective organiser for the truth! No related posts.