By Andile Mngxitama The DA The Democratic Alliance (DA) must be discarded as a right wing white supremacist party of white monopoly capital (WMC) and land thieves. Empirical and theoretical work must be done on this. Black people have to be warned about the DA. Those black political parties making common cause with the DA must be exposed as sellouts. Black leaders inside the DA are excessively obedient and servile towards white interests. They must be exposed as nothing but Uncle Toms. Massive propaganda must go towards winning black people from the DA. The ANC The African National Congress (ANC) must be understood as being ideologically divided. There is the ‘New Dawn’ of Stellenbosch and London (WMC in cahoots with imperialism) under Cyril Ramaphosa, on the one side; and the Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma (NDZ) project of Radical Economic Transformation (RET), led symbolically by Jacob Zuma, on the other side. Right now the ANC is captured by the ‘New Dawn’ and therefore it is objectively the enemy of black people. Massive work must be undertaken, both empirically and theoretically, to expose the reactionary nature of the ‘New Dawn’ whilst strengthening the hand of the RET forces. Shouldn’t formations such as the Black First Land First (BLF) in fact seek alliance membership within the ANC to strengthen the hand of the RET forces? This is the critical question that must be asked and answered decisively and in good time. We can see that the South African Communist Party (SACP) is giving theoretical cover for Stellenbosch. In this instance the absence of BLF from parliament is harming the RET agenda. It was a tactical mistake for the RET forces inside the ANC to vote for Ramaphosa when the BLF was a loyal opposition option. Basically, voting for Ramaphosa was to vote for the persecution of the RET forces. A crucial part of the most important political work that must be done is to show how WMC has bought itself a President. The R1 billion given by WMC for the Nasrec conference, is a good starting point to criticize and expose the ‘New Dawn’. The privatization of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and the incapacity to respond to the needs of the people, such as jobs, should be a counter organizing point. In short, the ‘New Dawn’ must be put under severe political pressure while strengthening the hand of the RET forces. There is an ideological split inside the ANC. The worst thing is if the RET forces end up in fact strengthening the ‘New Dawn’ under the false notion of party unity – which is what happened in last national elections of May 2019. The EFF The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), because it occupies the left radical space, must be subjected to the most ruthless ideological assault. This formation is squandering the prospects of building a combative black radical movement, by deceptively assuming the space for such a movement when in fact it’s about the consumption of expensive goods by its leaders. The radical youth and elements of the working class which have been radicalized are being wasted by leaders in red overalls (the Reds of Mazzotti) hiding Louis Vuittons and delaying any prospect of attacking the real system. The Reds of Mazzotti know how to turn the radical rage of the youth into a project of fundraising from WMC. They have also now perfected the art of stealing through the tender system. Because its leadership is compromised by corruption, the EFF is now a direct danger to the aspirations of the revolution. Its flip flopping is a sign of opportunism. The fact that the EFF, a Marxist Leninist Fanonist party, can give political power to the DA (a party of land thieves and WMC) proves that it has no revolutionary ideological orientation. All it has is some mass appeal and capacity to use expensive marketing to bamboozle the impatient radicalized youth and black working class into a lull. A lot of work has to be done to show that the EFF is not Marxist Leninist Fanonist but rather a formation beholden to WMC and London, just like the ‘New Dawn’ of Ramaphosa and the DA. Massive ideological attack on the EFF is not only necessary, but it’s our revolutionary task. The revolutionary, principled fighters must be won back to the trenches of radical activism which in turn need not be under the banner of any specific party or movement. In conclusion So the immediate ideological task is to expose how the top three political parties are in fact one party – the party of WMC. The second task is to develop a national minimum program. BLF is arguing that RET is such a program which should be able to unite in action a large section of the left including the radical black nationalists. Thirdly, each block like the BLF must reorganize itself independently. The key point is not to tire or be shy of criticizing these three parties of deception. They must be exposed! We must ask our people, where is the promised land expropriation without compensation? Andile Mngxitama is the President of the black consciousness (BC) organization, Black First Land First. No related posts.