By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website: The former President Kgalema Motlanthe has finally told the truth about land expropriation. He has now told the nation that there shall be no land expropriation without compensation (LEWC). This is exactly what Black First Land First (BLF) has been saying even before the May 2019 elections. The political parties, like the African National Congress (ANC) under Cyril Ramaphosa and the VBS looting Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), are too deep inside the pockets of land thieves to push for LEWC. Motlanthe has vindicated BLF. The ANC of Ramaphosa is busy with the privatization of public assets. They have no interest in addressing the land question. This is because Ramaphosa was given R1 billion by land thieves to buy the 2017 ANC conference in Nasrec. How can Ramaphosa expropriate the land of his benefactors and handlers? On the other hand, the EFF is too busy with the looting of VBS and tender corruption in the metros that they rule with the DA. LEWC is not a priority when there are Range Rovers and Louis Vuitton to be chased. When this is compounded (as it is) by the undisclosed election funding the EFF got from the same land thieves, you end up with the humiliation of celebrating the so called expropriation of abandoned and derelict buildings. There are three parallel processes purporting to deal with LEWC. There is firstly the committee set up by the Minister of Rural Development and Land Reform to pursue the LEWC parliamentary process. Then there is also an expropriation bill which was already clandestinely announced last December. Thirdly there is the Advisory Land Panel report. All these processes have come to a stand still. BLF will write to the speaker of parliament to demand action on the promises that both the ANC and the EFF have made to the voters on land expropriation. These two parties have the required two thirds majority to amend the constitution but they won’t do so. The votes of BLF in the previous election were stolen because land thieves know that the land issue wouldn’t have been so easily shifted if we were in parliament. That’s why the main representative of land thieves, the Freedom Front Plus has instigated the banning of BLF. BLF repeats that there will be no LEWC because the two parties which are supposed to push for it, can’t go against their benefactors. Kgalema Motlanthe is indeed opposed to land expropriation but he is telling the truth about LEWC. It won’t happen under this lot. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 21 October 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.