By BO Staff Writer The story broke on Sunday that the leader of the Democratic Alliance (DA) Mmusi Maimane had been driving in a white Toyota Fortuner given to him by the former Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Steinhoff International, and the mastermind behind the accounting fraud at Steinhoff, Markus Jooste. Jooste apparently gave Maimane the vehicle for use towards the 2016 municipal elections. It is also alleged that the vehicle was a donation to the DA; and that Steinhoff paid for the vehicle. Moreover it is said that once Steinhoff’s links to the vehicle were revealed, the DA decided to return the vehicle. However Maimane continued undeterred to drive the vehicle. Jooste was forced to resign in 2017 after the company lost over R160 billion in value upon the corruption being revealed. The Public Investment Corporation (PIC) is said to be one of the top losers in the Steinhoff corruption. Black Opinion also revealed last year that “[s]ources close to the EFF’s financial affairs allege(d) the party received R7 million from the corrupt company.” It explains why the EFF had been silent on the Steinhoff corruption – its silence was paid for. We will remember that at the relevant time the EFF opposed the Political Party Funding Bill. To this end opening the accounting books of the EFF would have shocked many. It would have shown a money trail running from London to Stellenbosch, including the involvement of Steinhoff, which the leader of the party couldn’t risk. In the meanwhile organisations like the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (OUTA), Save South Africa (Save SA); Corruption Watch and opposition parties in particular the DA and the EFF covered up white corruption, in service of white monopoly capital. “On its part, BLF charged Markus Jooste for fraud, corruption, mismanagement of funds, money laundering, tax evasion etc when the story broke. But the matter was put under the table by the SAPS”, said Andile Mngxitama, the President of the black consciousness organization, Black First Land First (BLF). Maimane took to Twitter on Sunday and refered to those making accusations against him as “gutless individuals”. “Mmusi, like Julius and Floyd, admire white life too much. The white power structure knows this and has compromised them all. They have eaten Stellenbosch money. Now they are its poodles. When BLF says there is only one party in parliament and its the party of WMC some people don’t understand. The better devil” Mngxitama said. No related posts.