Photo credit: Reuters By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website: Black First Land First (BLF) congratulates Evo Morales, on winning the Bolivian presidential election with a 10-point lead of 46.86 % against the 36.73 % of the votes obtained by the U.S. sponsored opposition leader Carlos Mesa. We note that to avoid a run-off, Morales had to win either 50% of the votes, alternatively, 40% plus a 10-point lead over his closest rival. Morales, the current head of state and leader of the Movement Toward Socialism (MAS) party beat the Citizen Community (CC) party candidate, Mesa by obtaining more than 40 % of the votes and a lead of 10-points. BLF denounces claims by the Organization of the American States (OAS); the U.S. government; and the right wing opposition leader, Carlos Mesa, that the election results are illegitimate. Such slanderous claims are contrary to the findings of numerous international observers that the process has been legitimate and transparent. BLF stands with MAS and the rest of the progressive forces in their defence of the public vote against reactionary opposition interests. We salute Morales for obtaining victory to lead the country from 2020 to 2025, and for earning the absolute majority in the chambers of Deputies and Senators thereby enabling it to govern the country without being stunted by opposition parties. This is the most important factor. BLF wishes the Bolivian people success in strengthening the political, social and economic stability that has already been built under the Presidency of Morales over the last 13 years. Long live President Morales! Victory to the Bolivian people! Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC)
23 October 2019 Contact details Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Technical Advisor, International Relations: Shantha Balakrishna
Cell number: +27 72 114 3670 Deputy President: Zanele Lwana
Cell:Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.