Photo credit: telesurtv By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website: Black First Land First (BLF) calls on Bolivia’s 6.9 million voters to take to the polls on Sunday, 20 October and vote for a government by the Movement Toward Socialism (MAS) party led by Evo Morales. More specifically we call on you to return Morales as president of Bolivia – as the transformation of the whole of Latin America and the Caribbean is at stake. BLF recognizes the collective regional response to the neoliberalism of the 1990s including the fact that President Evo Morales was elected in 2006 as part of that response. We note that although the ‘progressive cycle’ in the region was subsequently threatened by U.S. sponsored coups in Haiti in 2004; Honduras in 2009; Paraguay in 2012; and Brazil in 2016, amongst others – Cuba, Venezuela, and Bolivia remained steadfast in their fight against imperialism and in defence of their sovereignty. BLF notes that Bolivia has been competently governed during the past 14 years under the presidency of Morales who has fundamentally facilitated the creation of a radically responsive state which, not only serves the people but also defends its sovereignty. It is important at this juncture for Bolivians to reflect on the tremendous legacy of MAS under the leadership of Morales and to honor it appropriately. We further note with pride that while Latin America and the Caribbean have been plunged into crisis via U.S. imperialism, Bolivia has been exemplary in maintaining stability clocking an annual economic growth of 4% since 2006 which in turn has changed every other aspect of Bolivian life. This includes the eradication of illiteracy 2016; and the reduction of poverty by 32.2%; an increase of the employment rate; an increase in salaries; and an increase of 20% in the minimum wage for the period 2000 to 2012. We further recognize that these successes were realized via the nationalization of state companies and the utilization of consequent profits towards implementing social programs and building core infrastructure. To this end the nationalization of the oil company Yacimientos Petrolíferos Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB) on 1 May 2006 in defence of the country’s sovereignty and protection of its natural resource wealth, is instructive. Also admirable is the rescuing of state mining companies; the state National Electricity Company (ENDE); the state telecommunications company ENTEL; the Airport Service of Bolivia (SABSA); and other state enterprises – which further improved service delivery and generated more state income. BLF wishes President Evo Morales victory in upcoming elections. We also wish victory to the progressive forces in Argentina led by Alberto Fernández and Cristina Fernández de Kirchner in the upcoming presidential elections and have faith in them joining the revolutionary trio of Bolivia, Cuba, and Venezuela. Long Live President Evo Morales! Long Live Bolivia! Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC)
18 October 2019 Contact details Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Technical Advisor, International Relations: Shantha Balakrishna
Cell number: +27 72 114 3670 Deputy President: Zanele Lwana
Cell:Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.