Photo credit: teleSUR English By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website: Black First Land First (BLF) stands in solidarity with the Chilean people in their just fight against the neo liberal policies of President Sebastián Piñera at the behest of U.S. imperialism. We note that at least fifteen people have been killed; over 1,420 people  have been injured; and more than 2,500 people have been detained since October 17, when the uprising began. We are appalled by these statistics and we condemn the brutal repression of Chileans in this regard. We moreover denounce the state of emergency and curfews imposed by the reactionary Piñera regime on the Chilean people. BLF joins the rest of the progressive forces internationally in reminding the rightwing government of its international obligations in this respect. We applaud the student movements in Chile for initiating the protests against the metro fare increases.The arrogant response of the Minister of Economy, Juan Andres Fontaine, that those having a problem with the transport fare increase must awake earlier in order to get a cheaper rate, indicates the impunity with which the neo liberal Chilean  regime acts against the people. The excuse that there was no other option in the context of rising costs, clarifies that the high cost of living too, was not considered by the  government to be its problem. Consequently High School students, who have traditionally driven social movements in Chile, took the correct decision to fight. Hence their campaign of massive metro fare evasion which involved scaling over and often destroying the metro baffle gates, was part of their legitimate struggle against injustice. BLF acknowledges that the fury of the public was heightened when the brutality of the police was unleashed on the students,.  The consequent spread of the protests to the streets and the fact that everything was met with fire (from metro stations, to petrol stations, to supermarkets) are not surprising. We recognize that it was from these fare increase protests that the Chilean people began to tap into the deep state of economic crisis that the country is in – a crisis fueled by the harsh neo liberal measures of the Chilean regime. BLF therefore unreservedly supports all the demands of the Chilean people including, the reversal of the metro fare increase; the president‘s resignation; economic transformation; affordable cost of  living; increase in wages and pensions, decent education for all; proper public health; corrupt free governance; and eradication of inequality. Full honors to the Chilean people! Victory is Certain! Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC) 23 October 2019 Contact By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website: Photo credit: teleSUR English details Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Technical Advisor, International Relations: Shantha Balakrishna Cell number: +27 72 114 3670 Deputy President: Zanele Lwana Cell:Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.