Photo credit: Lerato Maduna/Gallo Images By BO Staff Writer The following statement was previously published on the Black First Land First website: Black First Land First (BLF) denounces the raid conducted without prior notice by the Financial Sector Conduct Authority (FSCA) and the South African Police Service (SAPS) on Wednesday on the offices Dr Iqbal Survé, the chairperson of both Independent Media and the Sekunjalo Group. BLF moreover condemns the ruthless campaign of misinformation, defamation and lies conducted against Dr Survé – in a bid to destroy him and his companies because he represents a precedent for black success. White monopoly capital (WMC) interests are envious of the success of Independent Media, Sekunjalo Holdings and even Ayo Technology Solutions under the competent leadership of Dr Survé. BLF notes that ever since the Sekunjalo consortium had acquired Independent Media during July 2013 – Dr Surve and his companies have been subjected to atrocious attacks by the WMC interests (including the white owned media houses and state institutions) who oppose media transformation in South Africa (SA). These attacks have intensified in the past year more especially on Dr Survé. The probe by FSCA into allegations of market manipulation and contravention of section 80 of the Financial Markets Act is clearly motivated by WMC interests via heavy handed methods ordered by its puppet President Cyril Ramaphosa in collusion with his lackeys. The enemy of media transformation (WMC) is conducting a terrible campaign through repression against Dr Survé to silence him into submission. We remember how WMC destroyed ANN7 because it, just like Dr Survé’s media group, dared to tell the truth and expose the agenda of reaction. We agree with the sentiments of Dr Surve regarding the allegations that Sekunjalo Holdings is irregularly share trading against Ayo Technology Solutions. We say, if the investigation needed information about Ayo Technology Solutions that they believed was on the laptops and computer hard drives held at the companies of Surve, they should have simply asked for it. Instead of investigating the complaint lodged by Sekunjalo that “certain well-known hedge funds and asset managers” were attempting to bring down the share price of Ayo Technology Solutions, FSCA is now being used to investigate Sekunjalo. It’s clear that in an attempt to intimidate Survé and his media group into not publishing the truth, Cyril Ramaphosa, Pravin Gordhan and others associated with them are afraid that damning evidence (not limited to corruption) which implicates them criminally would show that they are each compromised, conflicted and beholden to WMC and to this end are not fit to hold office in any state entity, whatsoever. BLF stands in solidarity with Dr Iqbal Survé in his pursuit of the truth and media transformation. We say #HandsOffDrIqbalSurvé. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee of (BLF NCC) 10 October 2019 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 No related posts.