By Andile Mngxitama The main political agenda and program in South Africa (SA) is directed and controlled by white monopoly capital (WMC). When there was a real threat of a left wing development in 2014, London and Stellenbosch nipped it in the bud. They contained radical transformation and turned the momentum rightwards. The highly sponsored narrative that was constructed was that Zuma and the Guptas were the problem. Using their power over opinion making, WMC ensured that the central question was not land but corruption. WMC had the power to determine who is corrupt and who is clean. Even if you had been found to have engaged in tender corruption in Limpopo, WMC protected you and portrayed you as clean in so long as you targeted President Zuma and the Guptas. The Zondo Commission of Inquiry into State Capture served to accord some weight to the claims of corruption that were narrowly defined as being driven by Zuma and the Guptas. Agents of WMC who attacked Zuma knew that they had impunity. They got more greedy, more arrogant and increasingly careless. They opening bought houses and Range Rovers. They swipped bank cards of accounts that held the VBS loot on Gucci, Le Coq Sportif, the Durban July, luxury hotels and lodges, firecrackers and sweet things. Now used and no longer wanted, the big WMC machine has turned against its agents. The narrow definition of corruption became a trap which also ensnared the running dogs of London and Stellenbosch. One can’t help but think, “gentlemen you created this mess, deal with it!” The proper revolutionary attitude in this context is to develop the capacity to understand that the following multiple truths coexist: 1. These are agents of London and Stellenbosch.
2. They are corrupt to the core.
3. WMC no longer needs them and wants them cut to size.
4. These agents do not want radical change. These agents must not get the sympathy of the poor. Our revolutionary attitude must be towards mobilizing the righteous anger of the people against the entire system and not in defence of these scumbags against their masters. They are only looking for a new set of masters. They love it in Babylon. We seek ways to pull the whole edifice down! It’s dangerous times these… Andile Mngxitama, is the President of Black First Land First (BLF) which is a revolutionary black consciousness movement. No related posts.